----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

THE DIRECTOR’S CUT 

    The Complete Role-Playing Game 
                    by 

     Cynthia Celeste Miller 

                                         1.1. 

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

                              CREDITS 

                            Writing and DesignWriting and DesignWriting and Design  

                                Cynthia Celeste MillerCynthia Celeste Miller 

                 Additional Writing and Design 

                            Eric Hudson and Brian Wylie 

                                           Art 

                                   Patrick Sullivan 

                                Graphic Design 

                                Cynthia Celeste Miller 

                                       Editing 

                                     Norbert Franz 

                      Additional Contributions 

   Craig Oxbrow, Tony Lee, James O’Rance, Troy Austin Lidberg, Csmeron  
  Mount, Sean Wilt, F. Douglas Wall, Caleb Brumfield, Rick “Keyes” Hull  
  and the rest of the crew at the RPG.net “Game Design & Development”  
   Forum (Odie, Shoelip, 6-Pack, Bob the Coward, Bayonder and Ninjacat) 

                                   Playtesting 

   Shelly Bateman, Eric “Milk Dud” Hudson, Lindsey Babineaux, Robert  
 “Whopper” Lynch, Brian Wylie, Chris Clairmont, Cassie Lynch, Rob Nash,  
                            Shauna Nash and Chase Nash.   

                             www.spectrum-games.com 

                            2807 Grand Ave., Parsons, Kansas 67357 

Copyright 2010 by Spectrum Games. All Rights Reserved. This material (art, logos, illustrations, character concepts, text and  
game mechanics) is protected by the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of  
the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written consent of Spectrum Games, except for the  
purposes of reviews and for the blank sheets, which may be reproduced for personal use only. The reference to any companies  
             or products in this book is not meant to challenge the trademarks or copyrights concerned. 

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Chapter One:  
    Introduction                   pg. 4  
Chapter Two:  
    Slasher Films                  pg. 10 
Chapter Three:  
    The Game Rules                 pg. 20 
Chapter Four:  
    Characters                     pg. 34 
Chapter Five:  
    The Players                    pg. 42 
Chapter Six:  
    The Director                   pg. 50 
Chapter Seven:  
    Quick Flick                    pg. 86 
Chapter Eight:  
    “The Vault”                    pg. 90 
Appendix:  
    Character Templates  pg. 114 

                Warning! 

This game contains violence, gore and sexual themes. As  
such, our target audience is the 18+ year old demographic.  
Parents  should  seriously  think  twice  before  allowing  
their children to read or play Slasher Flick. In other  
words, this sucker is Rated-R! 

----------------------- Page 4-----------------------

        The Sidebars                                       CHAPTER ONE: 
Throughout this book, you’ll                                        INTRODUCTION 
fi nd numerous sidebars. In  
fact, if you’re reading this,  
you already have. 
                                                               “But Seth is bringing back help.” 
There are three varieties of                                          “Seth isn’t coming back.” 
                                                                                 Marti and Jeff -- Hell Night (1981) 
sidebar messages included  
here, each with its own  
purpose. 

                                                  THE MEANING OF FEAR 
Standard: Most sidebar                            What is it about slasher ﬂ icks that keep us, as moviegoers, coming  
messages fall under this                          back for more? Is it the masked killers? The gore? The plots?  
catehory. They usually give                       Certainly these things play a part in the appeal of horror fi lms, but  
some additional material or                       there’s more to it than that.  
information that doesn’t fall  
into any other category. If                       How many times have you been awake all alone at night and heard  
the message doesn’t have                          a sudden and unfamiliar sound emanating from outside your house?  
an emboldened header, it’s                        And when it happens, what goes through your mind? Usually, your  
standard.                                         fi rst thought is that some psycho killer is out there, stalking you,  

                                                  waiting for just the right moment to strike. Even though deep down  
Optional Rules: These                             you know that there’s a probably a more mundane reason for the  
contain rules that can be                         noise, your base instinct tells you that something sinister may be  
included if the Director                          afoot. But for that split second, fear shoots through you as your heart  
chooses.                                          pumps like a machine gun and your imagination runs amok. 

Behind the Scenes: These                          I’m no psychologist, but I would say that it’s quite telling that  
messages offer insight into                       our minds immediately gravitate toward the most malevolent  
the logic behind certain rules.                   possibilities when faced with uncertainty. It’s like the human brain  

                                                  is wired to think about these things, even on a subconscious level.  
                                                  If you take a look at some of the ways that we derive pleasure  
                                                  from fear, it should come as no surprise that we love slasher ﬂ icks.  
                                                  From roller coasters and skydiving to spook houses and speeding in  
                                                  vehicles, the human race enjoys facing terror, even if in a controlled  
                                                  environment.   

                                                  And really, isn’t that what slasher ﬂ icks are all about; facing terror  
                                                  in a controlled environment? We are able to experience this terror  
                                                  vicariously through the characters in the movies, all the while  
                                                  remaining safe inside the theater or even our own home. This is, as  
                                                  far as I’m concerned, why we keep coming back for more.   

              4. 

----------------------- Page 5-----------------------

SLASHER FLICK: THE RPG                                                                       A Note About Personal  
                                                                                                      Pronouns 
Slasher Flick is a role-playing game that brings all the thrills of  
slasher movies from the screen to the tabletop. It’s not a universal  
                                                                                            For the sake of clarity, we  
game that can easily be used for other genres. Every rule was  
                                                                                            have adopted the system of  
designed with the sole purpose of capturing all the tropes and  
                                                                                            using feminine pronouns  
nuances of the source material. 
                                                                                            for referencing the Director  
                                                                                            and masculine pronouns for  
Players take on the roles of potential victims for the psycho killer(s).  
                                                                                            referencing players.  
This may be overly blunt, but that’s the truth of the matter. It’s very,  
very possible that any given character will be stabbed, strangled,  
                                                                                            If referencing anyone else  
eviscerated, decapitated, chopped into pieces or otherwise disposed  
                                                                                            (characters that aren’t required  
of by the time the game is over. That’s okay though, as Slasher Flick  
                                                                                            to be a specifi c gender, both  
isn’t a game about winning or losing. It’s a game about cooperatively  
                                                                                            the Director and players  
telling an entertaining story. Besides, players will be controlling  
                                                                                            collectively, etc.), we use male  
multiple characters, so they won’t have to wait around long. 
                                                                                            pronouns.   

Despite the fact that Slasher Flick focuses on the notion that a serial  
killer is on the loose, there is another very important aspect of the  

                                                                                                   Things to Get 

                                                                                            In order to play, you’ll need  
                                                                                            to acquire a handful of dice:  

                                                                                            • six-sided dice (d6) 
                                                                                            • eight-sided dice (d8)  
                                                                                            • ten-sided dice (d10).  

                                                                                            Four to six of each type will  
                                                                                            be fi ne. These dice can be  
                                                                                            purchased from your local  
                                                                                            game or hobby store.  

                                                                                            You should also get your  
                                                                                            hands on some paper and  
                                                                                            pencils as well. 

                                                                                                         5. 

----------------------- Page 6-----------------------

   Winners and Losers                             game: character interaction. Each character has his or her own  
                                                  distinct personality and likely has some manner of link to the other  
The common misconception                          characters (friends, roommates, acquaintances, etc.). All the best  
about games is that there                         slasher fi lms make the audience care about the characters by playing  
must be a winner and a loser.                    up these personalities and relationships between them. Otherwise,  
That’s what we’ve always                          nobody is going to give a damn whether or not the characters live or  
been taught, right?                               die. Since this is the case, it’s only logical that characters in the game  
                                                  should be treated the same way.    
Well, we may have been  
taught that, but it’s just not                    ROLE-PLAYING BASICS 
true. 
                                                  For those of you who have role-played before, feel free to skip over  
In a role-playing game,                           this section. This will be old hat for you. However, if you’re new to  
everybody wins. The goal                          the hobby, you’re probably wondering how this all works. If this is  
isn’t to beat the other                           the case, this section is a must-read.  
participants, but to tell a  
mutual story with them. As                        Let’s start with a quick defi nition. A role-playing game is an  
long as a satisfying story                        interactive storytelling game. Now, let’s expand upon that defi nition  
is the end result, everyone                       with some explanations. 
walks away a winner, even  
if all their characters were                      The Director and the Players 
slaughtered.  
                                                  There are two types of participants in the game: the Director and the  
                                                 players. One participant acts as the Director; everyone else acts as  
On a similar note, the  
                                                 players.  
Director may take on the role  
of the killer, but that doesn’t  
                                                      •   The Director is the participant who set the game up and  
mean you’re playing against  
                                                          knows the overall framework of the story. In fact, the  
him. His goal is to provide  
                                                          Director usually writes it. She plays the roles of any  
the players with a challenge  
                                                          characters not portrayed by the players and also adjudicates  
and, yes, butcher the hell out  
                                                          the game rules. 
of some, most or all of them.  
This doesn’t make him the  
                                                      •   The players each play the role of a character of their own  
enemy. He’s just playing the  
                                                          creation, and share the lesser characters. They aren’t privy to  
role of the enemy. In truth,  
                                                          what’s going on in the game and must fi nd out as the story  
most Director’s are rooting                               unfolds. 
for the players’ characters. 

                                                  Flicks  
                                                  Each game is known as a flick. A flick can be played in one  
                                                  full-length session or divided up into several shorter sessions;  
                                                  whichever is more convenient for you and your fellow  
                                                 participants. Like an actual horror movie, a flick ends when the  
                                                  story is resolved in some fashion. Just because the story ends,  
                                                  it doesn’t mean the Director can’t start planning out a sequel.  
                                                  Sequels are part and parcel of the slasher film sub-genre, so it’s  
                                                  feasible for numerous sequels to be made. 

              6. 

----------------------- Page 7-----------------------

How it Works                                                                                  Where’s the Board? 
The Director kicks a ﬂ ick off by describing the opening scene. This  
scene often involves some or all of the players’ characters. The                           Straight away, there is  
players describe what their characters are doing. In most cases, this                      no board. You don’t need  
doesn’t require any rules. It’s like verbal improvisational acting. The                    one. The action in a role- 
Director tells them the results of their actions using common sense                        playing game takes place  
and his notes about the ﬂ ick as her guide. This verbal interplay goes                     in the imaginations of the  
back and forth, spinning a story in the process.                                           participants, which may seem  
                                                                                           a little odd to people who  
If a character does something that could result in failure (climbing a                     haven’t played before. 
cliff, conning a shop owner, sneaking around, etc.), the rules must be  
used to determine if the character can pull it off.                                        But don’t worry. It’s not as  
                                                                                           outlandish as it sounds at  
Below is a brief example of a typical scene in progress:                                   fi rst. 

Director: As you walk into the creepy old graveyard in the moonlit                         A good Director gives the  
night, the stout autumn wind whips the nearby tree branches around,                        players vivid (but not long- 
making them look as if they are grasping at you wildly. You see                            winded) verbal descriptions  
graves jutting up from the ground, leaning in all different directions.                    of the environment, the  
At the far end of the cemetery stands an imposing mausoleum.                               people the characters meet  
                                                                                           and everything else that  
Player #1: Judging by what the crazy old man told us earlier, that                         happens in the game. 
mausoleum looks to be where we need to go.  
Player #2: You bet. I start making my way toward it.                                       With all that, there’s just no  
                                                                                           need for a board. 
Player #1: Same here. We need to see what the old man thought was  
so important. 

Director: You trudge through the muddy ground toward the  
mausoleum when suddenly, a dark fi gure steps from the woods,  
blocking your way to the building. You can’t see what he looks  
like, though, due to the distance and darkness, but you can see that  
he’s wielding an axe. He stares right at you for a moment and then  
determinedly begins walking toward you at a brisk pace. What re  
you going to do? 

See how it works? It’s just a verbal give-and-take, with everyone  
doing their part to tell a scary story. 

IMPORTANT TERMS 
What follows is a short list of terms that are used throughout this book. 

D3: Roll a d6, counting the results of 1-2 as “1”, the results of 3-4 as  
“2” and the results of 5-6 as “3”. 

                                                                                                        7. 

----------------------- Page 8-----------------------

                                   D6: A standard six-sided die. 

                                   D8: An eight-sided die.  

                                   D10: A ten-sided die. 

                                   Director: The primary storyteller. She’s the one who runs the game. 

                                   Player: The participants (excluding the Director).  

                                   Flick: The story that unfolds during a game session; usually one  
                                   complete story. It’s what most games call “adventures.” 

                                   Primary Characters: The players’ main characters. They usually  
                                   survive longer than secondary characters. 

                                   Secondary Characters: The players’ less important characters.  
                                   These characters tend to drop like ﬂ ies. 

                                   Tertiary Characters: The minor characters played by the Director. 

                                   Killer: The murderous psychopath. 

                                   Stats: Each character (except the killer) has four stats (Brawn,  
                                   Finesse, Brains and Spirit) that measure a character’s overall  
                                   abilities. Each one is rated Poor, Normal or Good. 

                                   Positive Qualities: Skills, knacks or perks that characters possess. 

                                   Negative Qualities: Disadvantages, weaknesses or ﬂ aws that  
                                   characters possess. 

                                   Genre Points: Points that characters acquire during the game by  
                                   acting true to the genre. They can be spent to help characters out. 

                                   Stat Check: A roll that determines whether a character succeeds in a  
                                   task or not.  

                                   Kill Scene: A tense series of narration and stat checks that begins  
                                   when the killer appears and attacks one or more character.  

                                   Survival Points: Points that are gained or lost during a kill scene. If  
                                   a character’s survival point total drops below zero, he is either dead  
                                   or captured. If a character’s survival point total equals or exceeds  
                                   eight, the character escapes or temporarily defeats the killer. 

8. 

----------------------- Page 9-----------------------

WHAT LIES AHEAD 
This section takes a quick look at what each chapter of the book contains. 

Chapter 1: Introduction – This is the section you’re reading right now. 

Chapter 2: Slasher Films – Want to learn more about the slasher  
fi lm sub-genre? If so, then this chapter is for you. 

Chapter 3: The Game Rules – Learn all the rules you’ll need to  
know in order to play or direct the game. 

Chapter 4: Creating Characters – The rules for creating primary  
and secondary characters. 

Chapter 5: The Players – The guidelines and detailed advice on  
how to play primary and secondary characters 

Chapter 6: The Director – This section has advice for directing the  
game and creating ﬂ icks. It also contains rules for creating tertiary  
characters and killers. 

Chapter 7: QuickFlicks – This section gives you three ﬂ ick  
summaries to ﬂ esh out and use. 

Chapter 8: “The Vault” – This section presents an introductory  
ﬂ ick for you and your group to play. 

Appendix: Character Templates – A massive selection of pre-made  
characters to use. 

                                                                                                      9. 

----------------------- Page 10-----------------------

                                              CHAPTER TWO: 
                                                          SLASHER FILMS 

                                     “There are certain rules that one must abide by in “There are certain rules that one must abide by in  
                                     order to successfully survive a horror movie. For order to successfully survive a horror movie. For  
                                     instance, number one: you can never have sex.”instance, number one: you can never have sex.” 

                                                                                              Randy – Scream (1996)Randy – Scream (1996) 

                                      WHAT SLASHER FILMS ARE 
                                       The slasher fi lm is a type of horror fi lm that involves a psychopathic  
                                       killer who systematically murders a series of victims in a brutal  
                                       fashion. Let’s look at some of the core elements that make these  
                                       movies unique. 

                                       Slasher fi lms often…  

                                            •   … have a single killer, though it’s not unknown for them to  
                                                have more. 
                                            •   … focus on teenagers or college-aged adults who are  
                                                somehow isolated from civilization. 
                                            •   … deal extensively with the relationships, friendships and  
                                                conﬂ icts of the characters, making it the focus of much of  
                                                the fi lm (especially the fi rst 1/3 of it). 
                                            •   … feature gratuitous sex scenes. 
                                            •   … showcase morbidly creative methods of dispatching  
                                                victims. 
                                            •   … emphasize excessive gore. 
                                            •   … begin with the murder of a female and end with a lone  
                                                female survivor, though it’s also common for one male to  
                                                survive as well. 

                                       Obviously, the above elements are generalizations and don’t  
                                      necessarily have to apply to every slasher fi lm. Still, they represent  
                                       the most common aspects of the sub-genre. 

                                       THE KILLER 
                                       What would a slasher ﬂ ick be without a slasher? Something else  
                                       entirely! Every slasher fi lm has one, and some have more than one.  
                                       At any rate, the killer is at the (ripped out) heart of the sub-genre. It’s  
                                       time to reﬂ ect on some of the more common features of slasher fi lm  
                                       murderers. 

10. 

----------------------- Page 11-----------------------

A Slasher fi lm killer often… 

    •    … seems more like an unstoppable force of nature than a  
         human. Of course, sometimes, the killer isn’t human. 
    •    … either wears a mask of some sort, has a hideous face or  
         has a hideous face covered up by a mask. 
    •    … prefers to do away with teenagers or college-aged  
         adults… especially ones that are having sex and partying. 
    •    … has a twisted (and sometimes sad) backstory that explains  
         why he’s a murderer. 
    •    … has “mommy issues”. 
    •    … is more cunning than one might think, even the ones that  
         supposedly have a low intellect. 
    •    … foregoes the use of fi rearms in favor of up-close weapons,  
        primitive ranged weapons and improvised weapons. 
    •    … confi nes his murderous activities to a specifi c location or  
         region. 

TROPES AND CLICHES  
Slasher fi lms are rife with their own conventions and trademarks.  
This fact has resulted in harsh criticism of the sub-genre, with  
detractors claiming that the fi lms are too clichéd to be entertaining.  
The fact is, there are many clichéd elements in slasher fi lms. Nobody  
can deny that. However, the same can be said of any style of movie.  
Besides, it’s all about telling a fun, violent and suspenseful story…  
and the slasher fi lm tropes help with that.   

Below is a list of common tropes, many of which are discussed in  
greater detail in Chapter 6. 

    •    Parents/authority fi gures/police never believe kids/teens/ 
         college students.  
    •    Victims-to-be always travel in groups. 
    •    Killers often look to be dead, but the audience sees his eyes  
        pop open (often followed by him sitting bolt upright while  
         nobody is looking. 
    •    Characters always check out noises.  
    •    Phone always seem to be out of service (cell phones never  
         get signals either).  
    •    Windows often jam. 
    •    Vehicles seldom start and when they do, it’s never easy. 
    •    Perfectly ordinary people suddenly become master trap- 
         setters, especially late in the fi lm. 
    •    Even though there’s a maniac on the loose, people somehow  
         manage to be intimate with each other. 

                                                                                                           11. 

----------------------- Page 12-----------------------

                                           •   When somebody comes up missing and his/her friends fear  
                                               that something bad has happened, they always holler their  
                                               names… which only alerts the killer to their presence. 
                                           •   When someone gets a killer down, they never fi nish him off.  
                                           •   When it looks like the killer is dead, people drop their  
                                               weapons. 
                                           •   Any characters having sex are sure to be killed either during  
                                               or after. 
                                           •   When making out, a noise can be heard, but the guy always  
                                               insists that it’s just the wind. It’s never the damn wind! 
                                           •   Cars often break down or have a ﬂ at near a killer’s “area of  
                                               operation”. 
                                           •   There’s always a “crazy” individual who knows what’s really  
                                               going on, but nobody believes him/her. 
                                           •   Characters ask for directions to their destination, but the  
                                               person they ask is one of the bad guys. 
                                           •   Assholes and bitches never survive. 
                                           •   Characters (especially women) are prone to falling while  
                                               running. 
                                           •   Couples who are having relationship problems seem to bond  
                                               and realize how much they love each other after facing death  
                                               throughout the movie. 
                                           •   “I’ll be right back.” No, you won’t. Trust me. 
                                           •   Killers often have “mommy issues” (Psycho, Friday the 13th,  

                                               Black Christmas, etc.).  
                                           •   Females cry and scream a lot. 
                                           •   The classic cheap thrill: a character hears a noise and  
                                               investigates… and a cat jumps out at them. Damn, there seem  
                                               to be a lot of cats in slasher fi lms. 
                                           •   There often seems to be an over-use of coincidence. 
                                           •   Characters often have dream/daydream sequences. 
                                           •   There’s always suspenseful music while the killer is  
                                               approaching. 
                                           •   Killers deliver several quick stabs… but the fi nal stab is  
                                               almost always delayed for a few seconds while the killer  
                                               holds the weapon up into a dramatic position for the camera. 
                                           •   Minorities seldom live through a slasher movie. This may not  
                                               be politically correct, but it’s true. 
                                           •   Toward the end of the movie, the fi nal girl somehow runs into  
                                               or sees the bodies of everyone who dies during the movie,  
                                               one right after another. 
                                           •   Killers can walk and still manage to catch their prey. 
                                           •   Nobody in slasher fi lms has ever heard the term “strength in  
                                               numbers”, resulting in them inevitably splitting up or going  
                                               off alone. 
                                           •   Whenever a character fi nds a dead body and brings someone  

12. 

----------------------- Page 13-----------------------

    else back to see it, it’s gone by the time they return. 
•   At some point, most movies have a character see something  
    horrifi c (usually a body) and back up, running directly into  
    the killer, who has been standing behind them. 
•   When being pursued by a killer, people feel the urge to run  
    upstairs, effectively trapping themselves. 
•   Many horror fi lms often have some manner of legend  
    (“Thirty years ago, there was a murder at this camp.”). 
•   There’s often a character at the bathroom sink who closes the  
    medicine cabinet, revealing (at least to the viewers) that the  
    killer is behind him/her. 
•   For some reason, characters get close to a killer’s “body”  
    when they think he’s dead (usually to look under his mask).  
    This leads to the killer reaching up and grabbing a leg. 
•   Slasher fi lms are thinly veiled precautionary tales. 
•   It’s common for assholes to turn out to be valiant in the end. 
•   Children sing a lot in slasher fi lms… and it’s always eerie. 
•   There seem to be a lot of deaths in bathtubs and showers. 
•   Hillbilly cannibals are a dime a dozen in slasher ﬂ icks. 
•   Clowns and dolls are used to creepy effect. 
•   Characters often fi nd cryptic messages/warnings written in  
    red on mirrors. 
•   Killers are partial to masks. 
•   Teenagers are the preferred victim of psycho killers the  
    world over. 
•   Many killers are compelled to stay/operate within a  
    certain region. 
•   Oftentimes, movies have at least one scene shown through  
    the eyes of the killer. 
•   Slasher fi lms tend to center on a particular holiday or event.  
•   Disturbing and/or threatening phone calls that turn out to be  
    coming from inside the house where the characters are. 
•   If there is only one survivor, you can almost bet the mortgage  
    that it will be a female. 
•   Locations in slasher fi lms typically have thematic names/ 
    nicknames (e.g., Valentine’s Bluff, Camp Blood, etc.). 
•   A lot of slasher movies begin with a death sequence. 
•   There seems to be a lot of reliance on women’s intuition. 
•   Flashlights are unreliable devices, cutting out at the most  
    inopportune times. 
•   Killers enjoy grabbing victims through glass windows. 
•   Many killers feed on fear and are harmless to those who  
    don’t fear them. 
•   When a character barricades him/herself in a room, the killer  
    is certainly either already in the room or fi nds another way in,  
    thus trapping the victim in there with him.  

                                                                                                   13. 

----------------------- Page 14-----------------------

                                        •    Slumber parties are perfect venues for slashing. 
                                        •    Creepy phone calls are ALWAYS coming from inside the house. 
                                        •   Killers often memorize their hunting grounds to the extent  
                                            that they can navigate them blindfolded, and they often  
                                             install tunnels and/or secret doors to allow them to sneak up  
                                             on people.  
                                        •   Killers can usually hold their breath a long time underwater,  
                                             even if they’re normal humans. Supernatural slashers rarely  
                                            need to breathe. 
                                        •   Killers can almost always remain absolutely motionless  
                                            whenever they need to. They can even feign death. 
                                        •    The longer a killer operates, the more supernatural his  
                                             storyline becomes. It then gets out of hand, making the killer  
                                            too powerful. This prompts the fi lmmakers to bring him full  
                                             circle in an effort to restore believability. 
                                        •   Killers are fearless except when presented with their special  
                                            weaknesses or phobias. 

14. 

----------------------- Page 15-----------------------

    •   Some killers are amazingly good at hiding evidence of foul  
        play, simultaneously butchering people in obvious ways and  
        discrediting or framing his future victims so that the police  
        won’t try to help.  
    •   The victim traps the killer in a small space or the victim will  
        fi nd a small hiding place too small for the killer to get into.  
        Even still, the killer continues to slash at thin air while still  
        trying to get his victim, who is always ‘just’ out of reach and  
        usually sitting their crying instead of…you know…escaping. 
    •   After being trapped, the killer always backs away and looks  
        ominously at the victim, before calmly ‘disappear’. The  
        victim continues to sit there crying and just when she thinks  
        it’s safe, it becomes obvious that it’s anything but safe. 
    •   A group of friends will be engaging in their teenage  
        shenanigans, but one friend always has his back to the  
        approaching killer. The rest of his friends point fingers  
        and freak out in an attempt to warn him… but he fails to  
        understand what they’re trying to say. When he finally  
        lets it sink in, he turns around just in time to get murdered  
        by the killer.  
    •   Killers tend to cock their head to the side when confused  
        or thinking. 
    •   Blood often drips from above… onto a character. 

ESSENTIAL MOVIES 
Rather than list every slasher fi lm ever created, you’ll fi nd a selection  
of the ones we feel are most important and iconic. The entries are  
listed in chronological order. 

Black Christmas (1974) 
Widely credited as the movie that invented the modern slasher genre,  
Black Christmas presented an astoundingly scary story that pulled  
no punches. The story revolves around a handful of college girls  
in a sorority house during a Christmas party. They begin receiving  
unnerving phone calls that escalate to murder, as the killer is already  
lurking in the house.   

Cynthia’s Commentary: I’m hesitant to call any movie ﬂ awless,  
but I’ll go out on a limb and do exactly that with Black Christmas.  
Director Bob Clark (of A Christmas Story fame) uses every visual  
and audio tool at his disposal to create a tension-fi lled atmosphere  
unlike any other movie I’ve ever seen. And wait ‘til you see the big  
plot twist at the end. The movie was given the re-make treatment in  
2006, which was a solid fi lm in its own right. 

                                                                                                        15. 

----------------------- Page 16-----------------------

   Worst of the Worst                           Halloween (1978) 
                                                This low-budget masterpiece is the ultimate movie of the sub-genre.  
Not all slasher movies are                      It centers on a vile man named Michael Myers, who is described  
good. In fact, some of them                     as being pure evil by the well-meaning psychiatrist, Dr. Loomis.  
outright stink. Even still,                     Myers escapes from the institution and heads directly toward his old  
many of these clunkers are                      hometown, Haddonfi eld, where he proceeds to stalk teenager Laurie  
entertaining because they are                   Strode and her friends. Loomis follows him to Haddonfi eld in an  
terrible. Let’s take a quick                    effort to stop his killing spree. 
peek at some of the most  
atrocious of the lot.                           Cynthia’s Commentary: This is my all-time favorite slasher  
                                                fi lm. Director John Carpenter created the perfect blend of moody  
Christmas Evil (1980)                           music and on-screen atmosphere, the likes of which have yet to be  
A Christmas-obsessed man                        matched, in my opinion. The movie spawned multiple sequels and  
who, as a child, saw his                        a remake. Some of the sequels were good (especially Halloween II,  
mother making out with                          which picks up exactly where the original left off) and the remake  
Santa goes after all the                        was good as well, though many horror movie fans will disagree with  
naughty children. The fi lm                     the latter. The follow-up to the remake was an abomination, as far as  
is a meandering, slow-paced                     I’m concerned. 
mess with scenes that are  
unintentionally hilarious                       Friday the 13th (1980) 
(including the worst punch                      Even though Halloween basically invented the sub-genre, Friday  
ever put on fi lm). The ending                        th 
                                                the 13   took the formula and ran with it, grossing a vast profi t at the  
will leave you scratching                       box offi ce. The action here takes place at Camp Crystal Lake, where  
your head too.                                  the counselors are trying to refurbish the cabins before the fi rst  
                                                campers arrive. As it turns out, a young boy named Jason Voorhees  
He Knows You’re Alone (1980)                    supposedly drowned in the lake back in 1957, one year before a  
Some guys just can’t handle                     double murder occurred there. Some folks think that Jason didn’t  
rejection. After being rejected                 truly drown and was responsible for the murders. Whatever the case  
by a woman for another man,                     may be, the counselors start getting murdered one by one. 
the killer begins slaying  
young brides. Aside from the                    Cynthia’s Commentary: I’ll be honest; this is not my favorite  
core premise, the fi lmmakers                                                th 
                                                movie of the Friday the 13   series, due to what I feel is a really  
did their best to imitate John                                                           th 
                                                botched climax. I prefer Friday the 13   2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 10. Still,  
Carpenter’s Halloween,                          this movie is the most important of the lot and is defi nitely worth  
leading to some true face-                      watching. As I mentioned, it inspired a ton of sequels and a 2009 re- 
palm moments. They even                         imagining. 
attempted to ape the music.  

                                                A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) 
Memorial Valley Massacre                        In this fi lm, the demon-like ghost of a child murderer named Freddy  
(1988)                                          Krueger terrorizes several teenagers in their nightmares. Things  
I’m quite certain that the                      go from bad to worse when it’s revealed why he’s targeting these  
pitch for this movie went                       particular teens. Despite the fact that the sequels basically turned  
something like this: “Okay,                     Freddy Krueger into a darkly comedic fi gure, the original movie was  
it’s going to be like Friday                    a terrifying, terse, and claustrophobic roller-coaster ride. 

                   Continued... 

            16. 

----------------------- Page 17-----------------------

Cynthia’s Commentary: The original fi lm was possibly the best                             the 13th, except that the killer  
example of how to effectively meld supernatural elements with the                          is a teenage caveman with  
slasher movie formula. The fi lmmakers did a fantastic job making                          black tube socks and a cheap- 
the viewer vicariously dread the characters falling asleep. They toyed                     ass wig and who’s pretty  
with my mind by blending dream and reality in a seamless manner.                           savvy with technology.” This   
The viewer could hardly tell what was real and what wasn’t.                                movie falls into the so-bad- 
                                                                                           its-funny camp. 
Child’s Play (1988) 
Dolls are creepy and this movie (and even its sequels) plays heavily                       Serial Slayer /  
off of this fact. The premise is that a vile bastard named Charles Lee                     Claustrophobia (2003) 
Ray is killed, but as he’s dying, he uses voodoo to place his soul                         What’s scarier than a guy in  
in the body of a doll. He wants to be in a human body, though, so                          a mask on top of suburban  
he wants to transfer his soul into the one belonging to a young kid                        houses who shoots at people  
named Andy.                                                                                with a crossbow pistol in  
                                                                                           broad friggin’ daylight? The  
Cynthia’s Commentary: Child’s Play was a scary movie, plain and                            real question is: What’s not  
simple. Sure, Chucky (the doll) was snide and often humorous as a                          scarier? 
result, but it didn’t detract from the fright factor at all. The pacing  
on the fi lm was tremendous as well. The sequels were okay, but                            Mustang Sally’s Horror  
the original was the real deal. Tinsel Town is set to churn out the                        House (2006) 
obligatory remake in 2010.                                                                 A handful of horny teenagers  
                                                                                           head out to a remote  
Scream (1996)                                                                              brothel and get offed by the  
Heralded as the movie that revitalized the slasher movie sub-genre,                        prostitutes there. As if the  
Scream brought to the table a self-aware, satirical vibe that made                         premise itself isn’t mundane  
it hip and fresh to younger audiences. In the fi lm, a serial killer                       enough, wait ‘til you see the  
wearing a Halloween costume attempts to kill teenager Sydney                               execution of said premise.  
Prescott along with her circle of friends. The plot is far more intricate                  I’m a fan of low-budget  
than this write-up might indicate.                                                         slasher movies, but it isn’t the  
                                                                                           budget that’s the real problem  
Cynthia’s Commentary: It’s all about the big reveal! But that’s                            here; it’s everything else. 
not the only element of Scream that I enjoyed. The acting was                              Every single aspect of this  
fi rst-rate and the characters were far more than generic cardboard                        fi lm screams “ineptitude.”  

cutouts. Furthermore, the plot was a twisting and turning mystery  
that kept me guessing all the way throughout. Oh, did I mention the  
big reveal? Scream was given the sequel treatment on two different  
occasions and a relaunch is on its way in 2010. 

Behind the Mask: the Rise of Leslie Vernon (2006) 
If Scream ushered in a sense of self-awareness to the genre, then this  
mockumentary brought it to an all-new level. The fi lm chronicles a  
fi lm crew that is following Leslie Vernon, a man who is preparing  
for his big career as a psycho killer. It absurdly (but brilliantly) treats  
serial killing as an occupation. 

                                                                                                      17. 

----------------------- Page 18-----------------------

                                    Cynthia’s Commentary: This movie covers a lot of the ground that  
                                    this very game does, in that it dissects and analyzes the tropes of the  
                                    genre. It’s funny yet very suspenseful toward the end and the titular  
                                    character ends up being very three-dimensional and, at times, even  
                                    likeable. Other times, he’s exceedingly frightening.   

                                    ALMOST ESSENTIAL MOVIES 
                                    The movies listed below in an abbreviated format are highly  
                                    recommended as well. The only reason they didn’t make the  
                                    “essential” list is because they either didn’t necessarily move the  
                                    sub-genre forward or because they are so obscure that they didn’t  
                                    create as much of an impact.  

                                    Alice, Sweet Alice (1976): Creepiest-looking psycho killer ever! The  
                                    movie tends to drag in spots, but the payoff is worth it. It’s also in  
                                    the public domain now and can be viewed freely online. 

                                    Prom Night (1980): A creepy little movie that features one of the  
                                    best examples of a kill scene (see pages 26-31) to this day (Wendy’s  
                                    sequence). 

                                    Terror Train (1980): Jamie Lee Curtis is great in this claustrophobic  
                                    fi lm set aboard a passenger train on New Years Eve. I dare you to  
                                    guess the killer’s identity.  

                                    The Burning (1981): Yes, it’s another summer camp movie, but  
                                    don’t be dismayed. This one is probably better than the Friday the  
                                     13th movies, especially the surprising boat scene. 

                                    Happy Birthday To Me (1981): A mind-twister with a shocking  
                                    ending. Highly underrated. 

                                    My Bloody Valentine (1981): Has insane coal miner Harry Warden  
                                    returned to get his revenge on the people of Valentine’s Bluff? 

                                    Student Bodies (1981): Long before the Scary Movie series of  
                                    fi lms  parodied horror ﬂ icks, this gem did it... and did it far better,  
                                    in my opinion. It’s clever, funny and unerringly zeroes in on the  
                                    conventions of the genre.    

                                    Slumber Party Massacre (1984): A satirical look at the role of  
                                    women in slasher fi lms. 

                                    Girls Nite Out (1984): Stupid name, great movie. You’ll never think  
                                    of bear mascots the same way ever again. Trust me on that one. 

18. 

----------------------- Page 19-----------------------

April Fool’s Day (1986): A great little fi lm that is best known for its  
extremely odd ending that leaves viewers scratching their heads. 

Slaughter High (1986): Small budget… big fun. A nerd comes back  
to exact revenge on his tormentors. Or does he? 

Leprechaun (1993): An evil mythical creature wants his bag of gold  
back and will go to any length to do so. 

I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997): When some  
teenagers run over a man, their lives become hellish. Has he returned  
to kill them off? 

Session 9 (2001): Things go terribly awry when an asbestos-cleaning  
crew goes to work in an abandoned asylum with a sinister past. It’s  
a very unique, low key fi lm that has numerous creep-out moments.  
Some fans may argue that Session 9 isn’t a slasher fi lm, but it  
certainly counts as one in my books.  

Urban Legend (1998): A killer uses urban legends to dictate how he  
offs his victims on a college campus. 

Cry_Wolf (2005): An Internet prank goes disastrously wrong and  
people start dying. But who is the killer and why is he/she doing it?  
The answer may well surprise you. 

Cornered (2008): While playing a poker game in the apartment  
above a convenient store, the store owner, his drug-addicted nephew  
and others fall prey to a leather mask-wearing psychopath. 

Midnight Movie (2008): A motley group of movie-goers gets  
trapped in a theater while watching a rare horror fi lm from the early  
‘70s. That’s when the fi lm’s killer comes to life and starts coming  
after them. 

The Hills Run Red (2009): A group of movie fanatics go on a  
search for a horror fi lm that mysteriously vanished years before.  
The thing is, the killer from the movie is real. Possibly my favorite  
slasher movie of the last 25 years.  

Midnight Meat Train (2009): If you like movies that really push  
the boundaries of what a slasher fi lm can be, check this one out.  
It’s among the most gruesome movies I’ve seen, but make no  
mistake; it has a great story that, in the latter portion, even ﬂ irts with  
Lovecraftian horror. 

                                                                                                        19. 

----------------------- Page 20-----------------------

                                          CHAPTER THREE: 
                                                       THE GAME RULES 

                                      “This place is cursed. Cursed! It’s got a death curse!”“This place is cursed. Cursed! It’s got a death curse!” 

                                                                                  Crazy Ralph – Friday the 13th (1980)Crazy Ralph – Friday the 13th (1980) 

                                      CHARACTERS IN THE GAME 
                                      From hapless victims to vicious psycho killers, characters are what  
                                      drive the game. Without them, there would be no game at all. That’s  
                                      why this section focuses exclusively on the various souls that inhabit  
                                      the world of Slasher Flick.  

                                      Types of Characters 
                                      There are four types of characters in the game: 

                                      Primary Characters 
                                      Primary characters are the characters that, when watching a slasher  
                                      fi lm, you just know will either be the ones who survive or will be the  
                                      last ones to die.  

                                      Secondary Characters   
                                      Secondary characters represent the major characters in a slasher fi lm  
                                      who will probably die.  

                                      Tertiary Characters 
                                      These are minor characters that are sprinkled throughout a slasher  
                                      fi lm (the old guy at the gas station, the sheriff who tries to tells the  
                                      kids not to cause trouble, the “crazy” old man who warns people that  
                                      they’re doomed, etc.). These characters may or may not be victims.  

                                      The Killer 
                                      The killer is only marginally a character; he’s more like a force of  
                                      nature. In fact, killers don’t have the same types of game statistics as  
                                      other characters in the game. Some ﬂ icks feature more than one killer. 

20. 

----------------------- Page 21-----------------------

Who Plays The Characters? 
Given that there are so many character types, one might wonder who  
is playing them all and how it all works. 

    •   Each player plays one primary character. 
    •   The players share the secondary characters. 
    •   The Director plays the tertiary characters as well as the killer. 

Sharing Secondary Characters 
In slasher fi lms, the body count has a tendency to be high. This  
means that if the Director was to play the secondary characters (who  
die a lot), the inevitable death sequences would be nothing more than  
her describing them to the players, who would have no impact on  
anything. They would be reduced to acting as static bystanders. How  
boring would that be? 

In order to avoid this unrewarding style of play, the players get  
to step into the roles of the secondary characters, thus making the  
players more entrenched in the story. This raises the question of who  
plays which secondary characters.  

The truth is that it’s up to the group as a whole. There are two common  
methods of determining who plays the various secondary characters: 

The “Set-in-Stone” Method: Before the game begins, the players  
amicably determine which secondary characters each of them  
will play. The players will play these (and only these) secondary  
characters throughout the game. This method encourages more  
consistent characterization of the secondary characters, but also lacks  
the ﬂ exibility of the “Free-Flowing” Method (see below). 

The “Free-Flowing” Method: When a scene starts, the secondary  
characters involved should be placed in the center of the playing  
area. Players can decide amongst themselves who is going to play  
which secondary characters for this scene. After the scene is over,  
the characters are returned to the center so that they’re ready for the  
next scene if need be. This method allows the players to experience  
numerous secondary characters during the game, but at the expense  
of truly letting them get too attached to any of them.  

                                                                                                    21. 

----------------------- Page 22-----------------------

                                      STATS AND QUALITIES 
                                      Primary, secondary and tertiary characters all possess stats and  
                                      qualities. Together, they defi ne what a character can do well and not  
                                      so well.  

                                      Stats 
                                      Every character has four stats: 

                                      Brawn: The character’s physical strength, resilience, toughness and  
                                      stamina. 
                                      Finesse: The character’s agility, coordination, balance and reﬂ exes. 
                                      Brains: The character’s intelligence, perception and knowledge. 
                                      Spirit: The character’s willpower, charisma, leadership and luck. 

                                      These stats are rated according to how adept the character is in those  
                                      areas. Each stat will have one of three ratings: 

                                      Poor: The character is inept or underdeveloped in the stat. 
                                      Normal: The character is roughly average in the stat (give or take a little). 
                                      Good: The character is adept or developed in the stat. 

                                      Qualities  
                                      Characters possess specifi c things that he or she is particularly good  
                                      or bad at within a given area. Each quality is directly related to one  
                                      of the stats.   

                                          •   The good things are called positive qualities and can  
                                              represent special skills, spheres of knowledge, knacks or  
                                              interests. Examples include: “scrappy fi ghter” (Brawn),  
                                              “sneaking around” (Finesse), “wilderness survival” (Brains)  
                                              and “cool under pressure” (Spirit). 

                                          •   The bad things are called negative qualities and can represent  
                                              specifi c ineptitudes, weaknesses, or ﬂ aws. Examples include:  
                                              “runs out of breath easily” (Brawn), “trips a lot” (Finesse),  
                                              “unperceptive” (Brains) and “acts like a bitch” (Spirit). 

                                      STAT CHECKS 
                                      Whenever a character attempts an action that could feasibly fail, a  
                                      stat check must be made. Using logic, the Director decides which of  
                                      the four stats is being tested. The player then rolls four dice. The type  
                                      of dice rolled depends on the stat’s rating: 

22. 

----------------------- Page 23-----------------------

     •   Poor: d10 
     •   Normal: d8 
     •    Good: d6 

If at least two of the dice roll identical numbers (called “matching  
results”), the character is successful.   

                      3            3            7            2 

                                                                                           
                 
                   

Separated Matches 
Sometimes, the dice will produce two or more sets of matching  
results. When this happens, they all count toward your total matching  
results. So, in the example below, there would be four matching  
numbers.  

                       2          2           5           5 

                                                                            
                 

Applying Qualities 
The character’s qualities can affect how checks are made. 

     •   If one of the character’s positive qualities would logically be  
         useful to the situation, the Director may instruct you to roll an  
         additional die of the same type for the check. A character can  
         never receive more than one extra die from positive qualities  
         (i.e., if the character has two helpful positive qualities, he  
         only gains one die).  

     •   If one of the character’s negative qualities would logically  
         be a hindrance to the situation, the Director may instruct  
         you to roll one less die for the check. A character can never  
         lose more than one die from negative qualities (i.e., if the  
         character has two hindering negative qualities, he only loses  
         one die). 

                                                                                                                    23. 

----------------------- Page 24-----------------------

   OPTIONAL RULE:                                   Task Difﬁ culty 
        Character vs.                               Some tasks are more or less diffi cult than others.  
    Character Fighting 
                                                         •   If the Director deems a task to be particularly easy, she  
Damage can be dealt to and                                   may instruct you to roll an additional die of the same type  
from non-killer characters.                                  for the check.  
This section deals with how  
to handle such situations.                               •   If the Director deems a task to be particularly hard, she may  
Keep in mind, though, that                                   instruct you to roll one less die for the check. 
only the presence of a killer  
can trigger a kill scene.                           Toppers  

Fisticuffs                                          The term “topper” refers to the highest possible number on a die  
                                                    – a 6 on a d6, an 8 on a d8 or a 10 on a d10. Likewise, the term  
Survival points are never  
at stake when non-killer                            “matching toppers’ refers to rolling multiple toppers.  

characters are brawling with  
                                                    In most cases, rolling toppers is irrelevant and has no further game  
fi sts. In most cases, fi sticuffs  
                                                    effects. That is, rolling matching 8s on a d8 is no different than rolling  
are treated as an opposed  
                                                    matching 4s on a d8. However, there are instances where it does make a  
check, with the winner  
                                                    difference (during kill scenes, the effects of a killer’s components, etc.).   
subduing, knocking out or  
otherwise defeating the loser.  
The Director should use                             Opposed Checks 
common sense to dictate the                         Sometimes, a non-killer character’s actions will be resisted by  
consequences of the results.                        another non-killer character. For example, when a character tries to: 
For example, if one character  
isn’t trying to attack back and                            •    sneak past another character (Finesse vs. Brains). 
wins the check, he obviously                               •   wrestle another character to the ground (Brawn vs. Brawn).  
isn’t going to knock the other                             •    convince another character to do something (Spirit vs. Spirit). 
character out.                                             •    Seduce another character (Spirit vs. Spirit). 

Lethal Attacks                                      These situations require an opposed check. The character trying  
When one non-killer character                       to perform the action is referred to as the acting character. The  
attacks another non-killer                          character being acted against is referred to as the resisting character.  
character with intent to kill, it                   Only the acting character actually makes a stat check. 
is treated as an opposed check,  
with the winner potentially                         An opposed check is made like any other check, with one exception: the  
forcing the loser to lose                           resisting character’s opposing stat rating may modify the number of dice  
survival points. The combat                         rolled by the acting character. The Director determines which stat the  
sequence ends favorably for                         acting character uses and which stat the resisting character uses. 
whomever wins the check.  
If a character rolls matching                       Compare the two character’s stat ratings.  
toppers, the opponent loses one  
survival point for every two                             •   If the ratings are the same, there is no adjustment to the  
matching toppers rolled. This                                number of dice rolled. 
means that both the winner and                           •   If the acting character’s rating is better, add a number of  
loser can take damage. 

                     Continued... 

             24. 

----------------------- Page 25-----------------------

         dice equal to the difference (e.g., Good [acting] vs. Poor                           This may seem peculiar in  
         [resisting] = 2 additional dice).                                                    that it’s roughly as diffi cult  
    •   If the acting character’s rating is worse, subtract a number of                       for non-killer characters to  
         dice equal to the difference (e.g., Normal [acting] vs. Good                         wipe each other out as it is for  
         [resisting] = 1 less die).                                                           them to wipe out an exerted  
                                                                                              killer. So, does this mean  
Once the number of dice is adjusted accordingly, apply any other                              that non-killer characters  
adjustments (qualities, situational modifi ers, etc.).                                        are as rugged as killers? No.  
                                                                                              It means that in the slasher  
Opposed Checks Vs. The Killer                                                                 movies, most deaths are  
Characters technically never engage in opposed checks against the                             caused by the killer himself…  
killer, as killers don’t have stats. However, killers have special rules                      not the other characters. As  
called components that can alter the number of dice rolled under                              such, the game system is set  
certain circumstances.                                                                        up to reﬂ ect that.    

Lending a Hand                                                                                Protracted Combat Scenes 
                                                                                              The Director may feel that a  
If a character specifi cally helps another character (to the extent of  
                                                                                              situation warrants something  
doing nothing else), the character being helped rolls an additional  
                                                                                              more elaborate when it comes  
die of the same type he would normally roll for the check. A second  
                                                                                              to non-killer characters  
helper grants yet another die. Three or more is a crowd, though,  
                                                                                              fi ghting each other. If he  
which means that further helpers are redundant and will not add dice. 
                                                                                              wants a combat scene to be a  
                                                                                              focal point of the ﬂ ick, he can  
Freak-Out Checks                                                                              allow for multiple checks.   
Fear plays an important role in Slasher Flick. If the characters fear  
nothing, then what’s the point of running a horror game? This is                              Fisticuffs: The fi rst character  
where freak-out checks come into play.                                                        to win three opposed checks  
                                                                                              wins the fi ght. 
When a character faces something frightening (confrontation with  
the killer, fi nding a friend’s dead body, seeing someone chopped into                        Lethal Combat: The fi rst  
itty-bitty pieces, etc.), the Director will instruct the player to make a                     character to win three  
freak-out check to avoid letting fear wrap its cold, dead hands around                        opposed checks wins the  
the character. A freak-out check is a Spirit check. The check should                          combat. If, during a check  
be made immediately upon seeing (or otherwise sensing) the source.                            in which a character rolls  
                                                                                              matching toppers while  
If the character succeeds, he keeps his composure and suffers no ill                          making an attack, the  
effects. If the character fails, the character becomes freaked out . A                        opposing character loses a  
freaked out character doesn’t always behave rationally. The player                            survival point. 
should role-play the character as such.  

Also, the Director may ask the player to make a Spirit check when a  
freaked out character is faced with a decision. If he succeeds, the player  
can choose the character’s course of action. If he rolls matching toppers,  
the character snaps out of the haze he’s in and is no longer freaked out.  
However, if the check is failed, the Director gets to make the decision for  
the character… and more often than not, it will be a bad decision.  

                                                                                                         25. 

----------------------- Page 26-----------------------

   OPTIONAL RULE:                               A freaked out character comes out of being freaked out at the  
      Fight or Flight                           beginning of the next scene he’s involved in, so long as nothing else  
                                                freaky is going on and at least 15 minutes (in game, not real time)  
Having been conditioned                         have passed since the last scene. 
by games that center around  
slicing up beasties in dank                     KILL SCENES 
dungeons, many gamers  
almost instinctively attack                     Whenever the killer appears and tries to attack a character (or vice  
the killer when a kill scene                    versa), a kill scene begins. A kill scene is a stream of narration,  
begins. This, into itself, isn’t                sprinkled with a series of stat checks. The character’s goal during the  
problematic in moderation, as                   sequence is to gain eight survival points before dropping below zero  
it actually happens in slasher                  survival points. The character starts the game with a set number of  
movies.                                         survival points: one for primary characters and zero for secondary  
                                                characters. 
But if players begin to always  
attack the killer, the genre                    Survival points are acquired (or lost) by making checks. Here’s how  
emulation will go right out                     it works: 
the window and the game  
will devolve into a mere                        On the fi rst turn of the kill scene, the character makes a Finesse  
fi ght-fest. You may as well be                 check (called an initiative check). If he succeeds, he is said to have  
playing a role-playing game                     initiative. If he fails, the killer has initiative. 
that caters to combat. 
                                                Step One: The controller of the character with initiative can choose  
Luckily, there are some                         whether to declare his character’s actions fi rst or second. Both sides  
optional rules that can be                      (in order) declare what they’re doing. The Director may decide that  
implemented by the Director.                    the killer automatically gets the initiative over the characters (or vice  
                                                versa), forgoing the check altogether. 
           Option #1 
If the player opts to try to ﬂ ee               Step Two: The Director declares what stat is being used and declares  
rather than fi ght, then he has                 any modifi cations to the number of dice rolled (due to qualities,  
a chance to gain additional                     situational issues, etc.). 
survival points. After rolling  
at least two matching results                   Step Three:  The player makes the check. 
for a crucial check relating to  
running away from the killer,                   Step Four: The Director narrates the result of that check. 
the player rolls a die -- on  
an even result, the character                   Step Five: The character’s survival point total is adjusted (see  
gains an additional survival                    “Gaining and Losing Survival Points” below). 
point. On an odd result, he  
doesn’t.                                        After Step Five, a new turn begins, starting over at Step One. 

           Option #2                            Survival Points 
The fi rst time a character  
                                                Survival points act as an abstract measure of how well a character is  
attacks the killer during a  
                                                doing, not just physically, but mentally as well. It can also measure  
given kill scene, carry the  
                                                how well positioned he is. 
crucial check out as normal.  

                   Continued... 

            26. 

----------------------- Page 27-----------------------

Gaining and Losing Survival Points                                                               For further attacks during  
After each crucial check (see “Crucial Checks” below), the                                       the kill scene, the player  
character’s survival points are adjusted. Here’s how to determine                                controlling the character must  
how the total is adjusted:                                                                       roll a die before making the  
                                                                                                 crucial check -- on an odd  
     •   Each matching result you roll in a given check increases the                            result, the character rolls  
         total by 1 survival point.                                                               1 less die than normal. On  
     •   Each matching topper result you roll in a given check                                   an even result, he rolls his  
         increases the total by 1 survival point, plus an additional d3                          normal number of dice. 
         survival points. 
     •   A check that generates no matching results reduces the total                            The player can spend a genre  
         by 1d3 survival points, as well as one additional survival                              point to automatically roll an  
        point for each “1” rolled.                                                               even result on this roll.   

There are a few other variables for crucial checks:                                              The Director may choose  
                                                                                                 to forego this option if the  
     •   For secondary and tertiary characters, each “1” rolled cancels                          attack is one that relies on  
         out a matching result.                                                                  sneakiness and cunning as  
     •   If a check generates four matching toppers, the kill scene                              opposed to brute strength. 
         immediately ends favorably for the characters. 
     •   If a check generates all “1s”, the kill scene immediately ends                                      Option #3 
         unfavorably for the character.                                                          This option is the harshest  
                                                                                                 of the lot. The player must  
                                                      If the character’s                         spend a genre point each time  
                                                      survival point total                       he wishes to attack the killer. 
                                                      reaches a certain  
                                                      number (usually 8),                        The Director may choose  
                                                      the kill scene ends                        to forego this option if the  
                                                      favorably for him                          attack is one that relies on  
                                                      (the killer goes down,                     sneakiness and cunning as  
                                                      the character escapes,                     opposed to brute strength. 
                                                      etc.).  

                                                      If, however, the  
                                                      character’s survival  
                                                      point total drops  
                                                      to below zero, the  
                                                      kill scene ends  
                                                      unfavorably for him  
                                                      (the character dies or  
                                                      is otherwise out of  
                                                      the scene). 

                                                                                                             27. 

----------------------- Page 28-----------------------

   OPTIONAL RULE:                               Matching 1s in Crucial Checks 
    Faster Kill Scenes                          It must be noted that, unlike regular checks, 1s never count as  
                                                matching results for purposes of gaining survival points during  
The kill scene rules can                        crucial checks. 
produce sequences that last  
for only one check, but they                    Losing Survival Points Outside of Kill Scenes 
also have the capacity to                       While not common, it is possible for a character to lose survival points  
produce sequences that last                     while not in a kill scene. This can be from falling into a damaging trap,  
for a good amount of time.                      falling off a cliff, getting in a car wreck and so forth. The Director  
You can choose to use a                         determines how many survival points are lost in such situations. 
slightly different approach if  
you want more control over                      Primary Characters and Survival Point Loss 
the length. This method is not                  A primary character automatically ignores his fi rst loss of survival  
recommended for primary                         points per ﬂ ick, regardless of the amount that would have been lost.  
characters.                                     For example, if the primary character’s fi rst loss would have normally  
                                                been three survival points, that amount would be ignored altogether. 
It works much like a regular  
kill scene, except that the                     Crucial Checks 
character will have to survive                  Most checks made during a kill scene are crucial checks. That is, the  
a certain number of crucial                     result of the check in question is pivotal to how the kill scene will  
checks in order for the scene                   end. A crucial check can cause a character to gain or lose survival  
to end favorably for him.                       points. Unless otherwise noted, a check made during a kill scene is a  
This number is normally 5,                      crucial check. 
but you can adjust it based  
on how diffi cult you want the                  However, there may be instances where the Director may not  
scene to be. If the character’s                 feel that a check’s result will affect the kill scene as a whole. For  
survival points drop below                      example, if a character is required to make a Brains check to spot  
zero before the designated                      a shovel laying on the ground, the Director may determine that the  
number of checks has been                       check will not cause the character to gain or lose survival points…  
made, the scene ends badly.                     but the Finesse check to see if the character can reach it before the  
If the character has 0 or more                  killer closes in on him will.  
survival points, the scene  
ends positively.                                Checks that don’t affect survival points are called non-crucial checks.  

                                                Important: Freak-out checks are always considered non-crucial.  

                                                Retaining Survival Points Between Scenes 
                                                Characters that survive a kill scene get to keep 1d6 survival points  
                                                for use later on in the game.  

                                                Kill Scenes Involving Multiple Characters 
                                                Kill scenes that involve multiple characters (in addition to the killer)  
                                                are simple to run.  

                                                For initiative purposes, all non-killer characters act together. When  
                                                making initiative checks, the players choose which character makes  
                                                the check itself.  

            28. 

----------------------- Page 29-----------------------

Each character’s survival points are tracked separately. If a character                         Simultaneous Kill  
reaches the required total to end the kill scene in his favor, the                                      Scenes 
Director determines whether the kill scene is over for everyone or  
just for that character. This is largely circumstantial.                                    In ﬂ icks that feature more  
                                                                                            than one killer, there may be  
If a character’s survival point total drops below zero, it ends badly for                   instances in which multiple  
that character, but the kill scene continues for everyone else, though                      kill scenes are going on at the  
the Director can make an exception if the situation warrants it.                            same time. 

Kill Scene Example                                                                          The best way to handle this is  
                                                                                            for the Director to cut away  
The following example should clear up any issues you may have  
                                                                                           back and forth between the  
with resolving kill scenes. In this example, the player is playing a  
                                                                                            two scenes after every turn. 
camp counselor named Josh (secondary character), who is currently  
                                                                                            In some cases, it may be best  
checking out an abandoned house for a missing camper. 
                                                                                            to switch over every two  
                                                                                            turns. 
Director:  As you search the house, you glimpse a shadow moving  
outside the window. 
                                                                                            This keeps anyone from  
Player: I creep over to the window for a closer look. 
                                                                                           becoming bored while  
Director: You step quietly and slowly over to the window, your heart  
                                                                                            waiting for the other kill  
pounding with fear. You get closer… closer… closer. That’s when  
you notice a reﬂ ection of a huge man with a burlap sack over his                           scene to wrap up.  

head in the window: he’s right behind you! It’s time for a kill scene.  
Make an initiative check.  

[The player makes an initiative check, which uses his Normal  
Finesse. He rolls 4d8 and gets a 1, 2, 4 and 4. Since he rolled  
matching results, the player gains initiative.] 

Director: Okay, you have initiative. Do you want to declare fi rst or  
do you want the killer to declare fi rst? 
Player: He can declare fi rst. 
Director: Okay. The killer, who wields a machete, takes a wild  
swing at you. 
Player: I’m going to attempt to duck underneath and run out the  
door I entered the room through. 
Director: Okay, this is going to be a Finesse check. You have the “quick  
mover” quality, so that will grant you an additional die. Roll 5d8. 

[The player rolls and gets a 1, 3, 5, 5, and 7. Since he rolled two  
matching results (matching 1s don’t count), he gains 2 survival  
points.]  

Director: The killer swings his machete forcefully, but you slip beneath  
its path of destruction and run past him and out the door. On to the next  
turn. The killer chases after you, surprising you with his speed. 

                                                                                                        29. 

----------------------- Page 30-----------------------

                                    Player: I’m heading back into the woods, trying to make my way  
                                    back to the camp. 
                                    Director: Another Finesse check with another bonus for your  
                                    quality. 

                                    [The player rolls a 3, 6, 7, 8 and 8. He rolled two matching results,  
                                    but they aren’t just regular matching results; they’re matching  
                                    toppers. Each matching topper is worth one survival point each, but  
                                    the player also gets to roll a d3 and add the result to the total. He  
                                    rolls a 4, which means a 2 on a d3, bringing his total up to 5 (1 from  
                                    last turn and 4 for this turn)] 

                                    Director: You are keeping a very good pace, staying well ahead of  
                                    the killer. So far ahead, in fact, that you can no longer see him. New  
                                    turn. You can’t see what the killer is doing, so you have to declare  
                                    your actions. 
                                    Player: I’m not stopping now. I keep running. 
                                    Director: Your Finesse sure is getting a workout today. Make your  
                                    check, same as before. 

                                    [The player rolls a 2, 3, 5, 6 and 8. Since he didn’t roll any matching  
                                    results, he loses 1d3 survival points. Also, he rolled a 1 on the check,  
                                    so he’ll add that to the total amount lost. Luckily, he rolls a 2, which  
                                    means a 1 on a d3. His survival point total is dragged down to 3.] 

                                    Director: You run through the woods at breakneck speed, but  
                                    suddenly realize that you’re lost. Just as you pause to get your  
                                    bearings, the killer climbs out of what looks like a large hole in the  
                                    ground. He apparently has ways of getting around in the woods. New  
                                    turn. The killer comes charging at you with his machete held above  
                                    his head. 
                                    Player: To hell with running! I’m going to try to pick up a rock or  
                                    something and smash him in the head with it as he nears me. 
                                    Director: This is going to be hard because his machete has a better  
                                    reach and he has momentum. So, you’re making a Brawn check with  
                                    only three dice. 

                                    [The player’s Brawn is Good, so he rolls 3d6. He rolls a 2, 5 and 6.  
                                    He loses 1d3 survival points because he failed to score any matching  
                                    results. He gets lucky again and rolls a 2, which means a 1 on a d3.  
                                    He now has 2 survival points.] 

                                    Director: Before you can connect with the rock, the machete bites  
                                    into your shoulder, causing blood to splatter everywhere. You fall to  
                                    the ground. New turn. The killer is going to grab your feet and swing  
                                    you into a nearby tree. 

30. 

----------------------- Page 31-----------------------

Player: Holy crap! I’m going to try to kick him in the face.                             BEHIND THE SCENES:  
Director: Another Brawn check, but this time you get to roll all four dice.                     Genre Points 

[The player rolls 4d6 and gets a 2, 6, 6 and 6. He not only rolled                       Bottom line: slasher movies  
three matching results, he rolled three toppers. He rolls a d3, and                      require the characters to do  
gets a 6, which means a 3 on a d3. Adding one for each topper rolled                     the dumb things on a fairly  
gives him 3 more survival points. That’s six survival points gained                      regular basis, which goes  
this turn! This, plus the two survival points he already obtained,                       against the grain of how  
brings his total up to 8 (the number required to win the kill scene).]                   most people play their RPG  
                                                                                         characters. Nobody wants to  
Director: He tries to grab your ankles, but as he leans in, your foot                    choose a course of action that  
meets his face and sends him reeling backward… right into the hole                       will just as likely as not spell  
he came out of. You’re not sure if he’s dead, but the kill scene is                      the end for their character. 
over. What are you going to do now?   
                                                                                         Yet without characters  
GENRE POINTS                                                                             wandering off into the  
                                                                                         wilderness to take a  
Characters in slasher fi lms tend to behave differently than people in                   leak or checking out the  
the real world do. Oftentimes, this behavior includes taking a course                    noise coming from the  
of action that could be construed as stupid. Traditionally speaking,                     basement, the genre cannot  
this kind of behavior is inadvisable in roleplaying games, where                         be accurately emulated.  
a character’s survival is of utmost importance. In Slasher Flick,                        These things are absolutely  
however, it’s not only advisable, it’s downright encouraged by the                       necessary. 
game system… especially for secondary characters.   
                                                                                         The Genre Point system  
Whenever a character does something that is particularly appropriate                     is simply a way to reward  
to the genre, the Director may award the player a genre point on the                     players who take chances and  
spot. Players accumulate these points and can spend them to help out                     play to the conventions of the  
their characters later on in the game. Below, we discuss the ways that                   genre. 
genre points can be spent. 
                                                                                         Genre Points are very potent  
Try It Again (3 Genre Points)                                                            and any player who doesn’t  
When you roll no matching results on a stat check, you may spend                         try to acquire them probably  
three genre points to re-roll the same amount and type of dice for                       won’t have his characters last  
another attempt. You may not re-roll this new result. You’re stuck                       long in the game. 
with it for better or worse. 

Temporary Reprieve  (3 Genre Points)  
When you lose one or more survival points during a kill scene, you  
can spend three genre points to reduce the loss by one. This option  
can only be used once per character in any given kill scene. You  
should also come up with some reason for the temporary reprieve.  
For example, a character failed a Finesse check to climb out the  
window before the killer got to him, causing the Director to declare  
that the killer grabs his leg before he can escape. The player then  

                                                                                                    31. 

----------------------- Page 32-----------------------

                                     spends the genre points for the “Temporary Reprieve” option and  
                                     states that his character uses the other foot to batter the killer in the  
                                     face until he lets go.  

                                     Just What I Needed (3 Genre Points)  
                                     By spending three genre points during a scene, you can make some  
                                     minor alteration. For example, a character is exploring a dark house  
                                     and his ﬂ ashlight goes out. The player spends the genre points for  
                                     the “Just What I Needed” option to make it start working again. Of  
                                     course, the Director can deny you an alteration. In such a case, you  
                                     won’t have to waste your genre points. 

                                     What Are  You Doing Here? (4 Genre Points)  
                                     If your character is involved in a kill scene, you can pull any other  
                                     primary, secondary or tertiary character into the scene by spending  
                                     fi ve genre points and coming up with a plausible explanation for how  
                                     they become involved. 

                                     Wrong Character! (4 Genre Points)  
                                     If your primary character suffers a loss of survival points while in the  
                                     same kill scene as a secondary or tertiary character, you may force  
                                     one of them to lose the survival points instead. You must concoct a  
                                     plausible explanation for how this happens in the game.  

                                     THE KILLER 
                                     The killer is, in many ways, the focal point of the ﬂ ick. Without his  
                                     presence, you would essentially be watching a teen/young adult  
                                     drama. But add the killer to the mix and you’ve got yourself a full- 
                                     blown slasher movie. As has already been mentioned, the game  
                                     system deals with the killer differently than other characters. Let’s  
                                     look at these differences in more detail. 

                                     Components 
                                     The killer is comprised of multiple “building blocks” called  
                                     components. Each component reﬂ ects one particular aspect of  
                                     the killer, often granting him special abilities or sticking him  
                                     with disadvantages. The Director should never reveal the killer’s  
                                     components to the players under any circumstances. The exception is  
                                     the killer’s weaknesses, which should be learned as the story develops. 

                                     Success and Failure 
                                     Since killers don’t have stats, they obviously can’t make stat checks.  
                                     The game system assumes that the killer succeeds in whatever he  

32. 

----------------------- Page 33-----------------------

does, though the Director should use common sense when dictating                                    BEHIND THE SCENES:  
what the killer can do.                                                                                 Damaging Killers 

The only time a killer can fail is if the Director wants him to or if                              Many fans have asked why  
a character opposes him. In the latter case, the player must declare                               the killer automatically  
how he’s going to oppose the killer and must then make a stat check.                               becomes easier to hurt when  
The Director determines which stat should be used. If the check is                                 only two characters are still  
successful, the killer is denied.                                                                  breathing, even if he hadn’t  
                                                                                                   suffered damage earlier in the  
Even though normal actions are automatically successful, certain                                   ﬂ ick. After all, logic dictates  
components require the Director to make die rolls for the killer. This                             that a killer would be able  
is simply an exception to the rule.                                                                to shrug off damage just as  
                                                                                                   easily when two characters  
Damaging the Killer                                                                                are alive as when three or  
                                                                                                   more are alive. 
Generally speaking, the killer is all but physically invulnerable  
throughout most of the movie. The amount of damage a killer can  
                                                                                                   To that, we say: logic  
take is astounding. Some of them can take a shotgun blast at point  
                                                                                                   schmogic!  
blank range and remain standing. Granted, this is an extreme case,  
but it has happened in slasher movies.  
                                                                                                   Watch just about any slasher  
                                                                                                   fi lm. Throughout most of the  
The killer is nearly indestructible until only two primary and (or)  
                                                                                                   movie, the characters just  
secondary characters remain alive. 
                                                                                                   can’t seem to do anything to  
                                                                                                   hurt the killer. Yet, toward the  
     •   When more than two primary/secondary characters are still  
                                                                                                   fi lm’s end, the characters who  
         alive, he is considered to be invigorated. 
                                                                                                   are still kicking often manage  
                                                                                                   to zero in on his weaknesses  
     •   When only one or two primary/secondary characters remain,  
         he is considered to be exerted.                                                           or just overwhelm him with  
                                                                                                   damage that surpasses his  
                                                                                                   immense pain tolerance. 
Damaging an Invigorated Killer 
When invigorated, the killer is almost impossible to hurt. If, during a  
                                                                                                   This is the curious  
kill scene, a character rolls at least three matching toppers, the killer  
                                                                                                   phenomenon we are  
gains a damage token (you can use a bead, coin, etc.).  
                                                                                                   recreating with the system for  
                                                                                                   damaging the killer.  
Damaging an Exerted Killer 
An exerted killer is more prone to damage, but is still a very tough  
cookie. If, during a kill scene, a character rolls matching toppers, the  
killer gains a damage token (you can use a bead, coin, etc.) for each  
matching topper rolled.  
    
“Final” Death 
Each Killer has a score called Damage Threshold. Once he gains a  
number of damage tokens equal to his damage threshold, he dies. Or  
at least he dies for now . He’s sure to be back for the sequel. 

                                                                                                               33. 

----------------------- Page 34-----------------------

   Sample Stereotypes 

There are two separate lists of                        CHAPTER FOUR: 
examples. The fi rst list contains  
attitudes and personalities,                             CREATING CHARACTERS 
while the second list contains  
basic roles and occupations.  
Feel free to mix and match  
from the two lists or even                         “You’re miles away from anyone. What better place “You’re miles away from anyone. What better place  
swap things around by using                        for a group of young interns to come and relax?” 
                                                   for a group of young interns to come and relax?” 
an attitude as a role (or vice  
                                                                                                 Freddy – Evil Laugh (1988)Freddy – Evil Laugh (1988) 
versa). For example, you could  
take “Airheaded” from the  
personalities list and use it as a  
role by dropping the “ed” from  
the end, making the character a                   BEFORE WE GET STARTED 
“[insert personality] Airhead”.    
                                                  The rules in this section are for creating primary and secondary  
Attitudes/Personalities                           characters only. The Director creates tertiary characters and killers,  
Abusive                                           using rules found in Chapter 6.  
Adorable 
Airheaded 
Bitchy                                            STEP ONE: GETTING READY 
Brave 
Bubbly                                            Creating characters is a group activity, involving all the players and  
Callous                                           the Director. The participants will collaborate on the creation of the  
Charming                                          ﬂ ick’s primary and secondary characters. 
Cheerful 
Clingy 
Demanding                                         The Order 
Desperate                                         Everyone sits in whatever order they choose, preferably around the  
Easy-Going 
Fun-Loving                                        table. Once the order is established, it cannot be changed. 
Gentle 
Hateful                                           Director’s Information 
Hot-Tempered 
Humble                                            The Director will tell the players how many secondary characters  
Humorous                                          will be created (usually one per player; a total of 6 primary and  
Introspective                                     secondary characters is ideal) and will lay out any requirements. The  
Likeable 
                                                  requirements could be anything from “Characters must be college- 
Logical 
Macho                                             aged friends who are going to a party in an old house” to “Characters  
Manipulative                                      must all have a background in computers”. Requirements simply  
Mellow                                            ensure that the characters will fi t the ﬂ ick’s concept. 
Mysterious 
Naïve 
Obnoxious                                         Character Sheets 
Pacifi stic                                       Each player should have one character sheet for his primary  
Prissy                                            character. Additionally, divide the sheets for the secondary  
Prudish 
Quiet                                             characters among the players as evenly as possible, giving them a  
Romantic                                          corresponding number of extra character sheets. So, if there are four  
Rowdy                                            players and the Director has stated that there are four secondary  
Seductive                                         characters, each player will be given one extra character sheet.  
Sensitive 
Shy 
Silly 
                    Continued... 

            34. 

----------------------- Page 35-----------------------

                                                                                       Sleazy 
                                                                                       Smarmy 
                                                                                       Smart-Assed 
                                                                                       Sneaky 
                                                                                       Stinky 
                                                                                       Studious 
                                                                                       Sweet 
                                                                                       Uncouth 
                                                                                       Unpredictable 
                                                                                       Weird 
                                                                                       Wild 

                                                                                       Basic Roles/ 
                                                                                       Occupations 
                                                                                       Actor 
                                                                                       Athlete 
                                                                                       Babysitter 
                                                                                       Basketcase 
                                                                                       Biker 
                                                                                       Bully 
                                                                                       Businessperson 
                                                                                       Camp Counselor 
                                                                                       Cheerleader 
                                                                                       Criminal 
                                                                                       Debutant  
                                                                                       Doctor  
                                                                                       Farmboy/girl 
                                                                                       Gangbanger 
                                                                                       Girl/Guy-Next-Door 
                                                                                       Gold-Digger 
                                                                                       Hippie 
                                                                                       Hobo 
                                                                                       Kid 
                                                                                       Mechanic 
                                                                                       Metalhead 
                                                                                       Musician 
                                                                                       Nerd 
                                                                                       Outcast 
                                                                                       Party-Animal 
                                                                                       Pervert 
                                                                                       Police Offi cer 
                                                                                       Prankster 
                                                                                       Prep 
STEP TWO: STEREOTYPES                                                                  Prostitute 
In the slasher fi lms, the writers have to introduce a lot of victims…                 Rebel 
                                                                                       Redneck 
err, I mean characters. In order to make the viewer quickly connect                    Scientist 
with and get a grasp on these characters, the writers almost always                    Security Guard 
utilize stereotypes. From the bookish prude and the silly prankster                    Shrink 
to the snotty bitch and the motorcycle-riding bad boy, slasher fi lms                  Slut 
get a lot of mileage from stereotypes. Since this is a game about                      Soldier 
                                                                                       Stoner 
these movies, each primary and secondary character must be given                       Student 
a stereotype. You’re in charge of giving your own primary character                    Surfer 
his stereotype, as well as giving one to any secondary characters you                  Survivalist 
currently have in your possession.                                                     Tough-Guy/Girl 
                                                                                       Vixen 

                                                                                                  35. 

----------------------- Page 36-----------------------

 Guidelines for Creating                          This book doesn’t contain an exhaustive list of stereotypes that must  
           Qualities                              be selected from. You’ll fi nd plenty of ideas on the following page,  
                                                  but you’re not required to choose from them.  
Don’t try to cover too much  
ground with a single positive                     Your best bet is to think of a word that describes the character’s  
quality! Try to be specifi c, as                  overall attitude or personality (cocky, fun-loving, quiet, grumpy,  
the Director can (and should)                     etc.), and then think of a word that describes the character’s basic  
veto any positive quality                         role or occupation (cheerleader, biker, slut, athlete, tomboy, etc.). Or  
that she feels unbalances a                       if you’d rather keep things simple, just choose one word that sums  
character. For example, a                         up your character’s role or occupation and skip the personality/ 
quality that makes a character                    attitude part. 
great at brawling is fi ne; a  
quality that makes a character                   Important Note: The Director has the right to veto stereotypes that  
great at both brawling and                        don’t fi t into the ﬂ ick’s concept. 
shooting is just too much.  
When in doubt, ask the                            Once stereotypes have been created, all players pass the  
Director.                                         secondary characters to the player on their left. 

Negative qualities should                         STEP THREE: STAT RATINGS 
actually affect the character  
negatively! In other words,                      Now, it’s time to determine the ratings for each character’s stats. At  
don’t create negative qualities                   this stage, every character has a rating of Poor for all stats. Don’t  
that won’t really impede                          worry, though; this will change soon.  
the character (“has bad hair  
days a lot”, “dislikes cherry                     Primary Characters: Each primary character receives four stat  
ﬂ avored candy”, etc.).                           boosters.  

Take a look at the typical                        Secondary Characters: Each secondary character receives three stat  
qualities for stereotypes!                        boosters.  
Each stereotype entry  
includes a few qualities                          Stat boosters are spent on increasing the stat ratings. Each player  
typical of that type of                           determines the stat ratings of his own primary character as well as all  
character. Feel free to                           secondary characters currently in his possession. 
use them verbatim or as  
inspiration.                                          •   Spending a stat booster increases a stat rating of your choice  
                                                          from Poor to Normal.    
                                                      •   A stat that has been increased to Normal can be pushed up  
                                                          to Good for the expenditure of another stat booster. That is,  
                                                          bringing a stat from Poor to Good costs two stat boosters.   

                                                  Once stat ratings have been determined, all players pass the  
                                                  secondary characters to the player on their left. 

            36. 

----------------------- Page 37-----------------------

STEP FOUR: POSITIVE QUALITIES                                                                     Sample Qualities 

With the characters’ stat ratings in place, each player gets to assign                       Below are some sample  
positive qualities to the characters in his possession.                                      qualities, both positive and  

                                                                                             negative for you to use as  
Primary Characters: Each primary character receives four positive                            inspiration. 
qualities. 

                                                                                             Positive Qualities 
Secondary Characters: Each secondary character receives three  
                                                                                             Attractive (Spirit) 
positive qualities. 
                                                                                             Bluff (Spirit) 
                                                                                             Brawler (Brawn) 
Coming Up With Positive Qualities                                                            Breaking and Entering (Finesse) 
There is no authoritative list of positive qualities to choose from.                         Climbing (Brawn) 
Rather, you are free to make them up yourself. Once you create                               Common Sense (Brains) 
them, you must use common sense to determine which stat each one                             Con Artist (Spirit) 
is linked to. The Director is the fi nal authority on the matter.                            Consume Alcohol (Brawn) 
                                                                                             Courageous (Spirit) 
Once positive qualities have been assigned, all players pass the                             Detective (Brains) 
secondary characters to the player on their left.                                            Driver (Finesse) 
                                                                                             Fast Runner (Finesse) 
STEP FIVE: NEGATIVE QUALITIES                                                                Flexible (Finesse) 
                                                                                             Hard to Hurt (Brawn) 
Each player now assigns negative qualities to the characters in his                          Healthy (Brawn) 
possession.                                                                                  Hiding (Finesse) 
                                                                                             Individualistic (Spirit) 
Primary and Secondary Characters: Each primary and secondary                                 Innocent Charm (Spirit) 
character receives one negative quality.                                                     Intimidate (Spirit) 
                                                                                             Knows About “X” (Brains) 
Coming Up With Negative Qualities                                                            Leaping (Brawn) 
                                                                                             Marksman (Finesse) 
As with positive qualities there is no authoritative list of negative  
                                                                                             Martial Artist (Brawn) 
qualities to choose from. You are free to make them up yourself.  
                                                                                             Natural Leader (Spirit) 
Once you create them, you must use common sense to determine  
                                                                                             Nobody’s Fool (Spirit) 
which stat each one is linked to. The Director is the fi nal authority on  
                                                                                             Perceptive (Brains) 
the matter.  
                                                                                             Persuasion (Spirit) 
                                                                                             Psychology (Brains) 
Once negative qualities have been assigned, all players pass the  
                                                                                             Repair Vehicles (Brains) 
secondary characters to the player on their left. 
                                                                                             Resourceful (Brains) 
                                                                                             Rugged (Brawn) 
STEP SIX: ALTERATIONS                                                                        Science (Brains) 
                                                                                             Scrapper (Brawn) 
At this point, the characters can be tweaked a bit. Such tweaks are  
                                                                                             Seduction (Spirit) 
called alterations. 
                                                                                             Stealthy (Finesse) 
                                                                                             Street Fighter (Brawn) 
Primary Characters: Each primary character receives two  
                                                                                             Strong (Brawn) 
alterations.  
                                                                                                                Continued... 

                                                                                                        37. 

----------------------- Page 38-----------------------

Sweetheart (Spirit)                             Secondary Characters: Each player receives a certain number  
Swimming (Brawn)                                of alterations to spread out amongst the secondary characters he  
Tactical Mind (Brains)                          currently possesses. That number is equal to the number of secondary  
Unconventional Thinker (Brains)                 characters he possesses, minus 1 (down to a minimum of one).  
Witty Remarks (Spirit) 

                                                List of Alterations 
Negative Qualities                              Presented in this section is a list of alterations that can be made to characters. 
Annoyingly Perky (Spirit) 
Bad Driver (Finesse)                                •   Increase a Poor stat rating to Normal. 
Bad Eyesight (Brains)                               •   Increase a Normal stat rating to Good. 
Bad Under Pressure (Spirit)                         •   Gain an additional positive quality. 
Birdbrain (Brains)                                  •   Gain a special ability (once per character; primary characters only) 
Bossy (Spirit)                                      •   The character’s player begins the ﬂ ick with two genre points.  
Butterfi ngers (Finesse) 
Cowardly (Spirit) 
Easily Frightened (Spirit)                      Special Abilities 
Fear of “X” (Spirit)                            The following are the special abilities that you can choose from if  
Foolhardy (Spirit)                              you give your primary character the appropriate alteration. In order  
Forgetful (Brains)                              to use a special ability during the game, you must spend genre points.  
                                                The amount necessary is specifi ed in the write-ups. You cannot use a  
Frail (Brawn) 
                                                special ability more than once per check, unless noted otherwise. 
Greedy (Spirit) 
Gullible (Spirit) 
                                                Adrenaline Boost (2 Genre Points) 
Half-Witted (Brains)                            Use before making a check. Roll an additional die of the same type  
Impatient (Spirit)                              that you’re rolling. 
Inaccurate Aim (Finesse) 
Sadistic (Spirit)                               Back For More (8 Genre Points) 
Slow Reﬂ exes (Finesse)                         When the character is killed, you can use this ability. Then, roll a die.  
Slow-Moving (Finesse)                           If you roll a 4-6, the character wasn’t as bad off as it fi rst appeared.  
Stumbles (Finesse)                              He now has one survival point and can enter another scene, though  
Terrible Swimmer (Brawn)                        you can’t enter the scene that follows the scene in which the  
Uncooperative (Spirit)                          character was “killed”. This can only be used once per ﬂ ick. 
Unhealthy (Brawn) 
Unperceptive (Brains)                           Dumb Luck (2 Genre Points) 
Weak Back (Brawn)                               Re-roll any one die after you make a check.  

Weak-Willed (Spirit) 
                                                Let’s End This (8 Genre Points) 
Wimpy (Brawns) 
                                                The character doubles the amount of survival points he gains from a  
                                                crucial check that generates at least one topper. 

                                                Overcome (2 genre points) 
                                                By spending two genre points, you can ignore a negative quality for a  
                                                given stat check. This must be declared before the check is made. Each  
                                                negative quality can only be ignored once per ﬂ ick in this manner. 

                                                Prone To Falling (0 genre points) 
                                                Once per ﬂ ick, when this character is ﬂ eeing from the killer in a kill  
                                                scene, you may declare that this character trips and falls. This must  

            38. 

----------------------- Page 39-----------------------

be declared immediately before making the crucial Finesse check for                                  OPTIONAL RULE: 
ﬂ eeing.  The check yields one less matching result than normal (so,                                   “Psychic Popwer”  
three matching results become two matching results instead). On the                                        Special Rule 
plus side, you receive 2 genre points. 
                                                                                                  Psychic Power (4 genre points) 
Resourceful (0 Genre Points)                                                                      When taking this special  
Once per ﬂ ick, this character may trade in survival points for genre points                      ability, you automatically  
on a 1-for-2 basis (i.e., each survival point traded in gets the player two                       gain a new Brains-based  
genre points). This may not be done while the character is in a kill scene.                       positive quality that describes  
                                                                                                  the nature of the mental  
                                                                                                  power (“Telekinesis”, “Can  
Scream Queen (Females only; 0 Genre Points)                                                       Read Minds”, “Can Start  
Once per game, when the character sees something horrifi c, you may                               Fires With His Mind”, etc.).  
declare that your character unleashes a bloodcurdling scream. Upon                                This quality is rated Poor  
doing so, you gain 4 genre points.                                                                and cannot be improved. You  
                                                                                                  must spend 4 genre points  
Speedy Recovery (2 Genre Points)                                                                  every time this quality is  
When the character survives a kill scene, spend two genre points in                               used, regardless of whether  
                                                                                                  or not the check is successful.  
order to retain 1d3+1 survival points rather than 1d3 (see page 39 of                             The Director can disallow or  
the rulebook).                                                                                    limit this special ability as  
                                                                                                  she sees fi t. 
Steel Yourself (3 Genre Points) 
Use before making a freak-out check. You automatically pass the check.  

Stupid Action (0 Genre Points) 
Twice per game, you may choose to let the Director control your  
character momentarily. The Director should have him do something  
very unwise. You immediately gain 2 genre points. 

Versatile (3 Genre Points) 
By spending 3 genre points and devising an explanation, the character  
can use one of his positive qualities to benefi t a stat it’s not linked  
to. For example, if the character has “Fisticuffs” (a Brawn quality),  
he could pay the 3 genre points and use it for a Finesse check by  
explaining that he’s doing a ﬂ ying dropkick (something that would  
require agility). Obviously, the Director can reject a totally outlandish  
explanation (you get your genre points back in such a case).  

Wholesome (3 Genre Points) 
The character is pure, virtuous or otherwise a relative goody-two- 
shoes. Whereas most primary characters can ignore the fi rst loss  
of survival points (see page 37 of the rulebook), this character can  
ignore one additional loss of survival points by spending four genre  
points as soon as the loss is announced by the Director.   

Once the alterations are performed, all players pass the secondary  
characters to the player on their left. 

                                                                                                               39. 

----------------------- Page 40-----------------------

       Sample Items                              STEP SEVEN: ITEMS 

Here is a list of common                         Each player picks out some items that each of the characters in  
items that you can give your                     his possession would logically have. Unless there’s a really good  
characters. Remember that                        reason (i.e., the character is a cop, a hunter, a street ganger, etc.),  
even though common weapons                       don’t give characters weapons. In the slasher fi lms, hardly anyone  
appear below, most Directors  
will limit the weapons.                          packs a weapon, so why should characters in a game based on those  
                                                 fi lms be any different? As a rule of thumb, no more than one or two  
Books                                            characters should be armed. 
Booze 
Brass Knuckles 
                                                 Once the characters are given items, all players pass the secondary  
CDs/Cassettes 
Cell Phone                                       characters to the player on their left. 
Cigarettes 
Cologne/Perfume 
Comic Books 
Condoms 
First Aid Kit 
Fishing Gear 
Flashlight 
Hairbrush 
Hairspray 
Hunting Knife 
Keys 
Laptop Computer 
Lighter 
Lucky Charm 
Mace/Pepper Spray 
Make-Up 
Medicine 
Pistol 
Playing Cards 
Pocket Knife 
Portable Stereo System 
Portable Video Game Machine 
Pot 
Purse                                            STEP EIGHT: DETAILS 
Sentimental Keepsake 
Sewing Kit                                       As far as game statistics go, the characters are now fi nished.  
Sleeping Bag                                     However, something equally important remains to be done.  
Slingshot                                        Characters are more than just game statistics. They are supposed  
Small Pet  
Snacks                                           to represent real people, each with his own personality, personal  
Suitcase Full of Clothes                         history, ties to other characters, and so forth. While characters are  
Sunglasses                                       based on stereotypes, they should be given a bit of depth in order to  
Teddy Bear                                       make players have some manner of emotional investment in them.  
Tent 
                                                 That’s where this step comes in.  
Umbrella 
Video Game Disks/Cartridges 
Wallet                                           Each player should consider the following for his primary character  
Wristwatch                                       as well as for all the secondary characters he currently possesses: 

            40. 

----------------------- Page 41-----------------------

Name                                                                                                  OPTIONAL RULE: 
Every character needs a name. After all, if the character didn’t have                                Character Templates 
one, his friends wouldn’t have a name to yell out while wandering  
around looking for him after he has been brutally murdered.                                       This book contains an  
                                                                                                  appendix (pages 114-167)  
Links to Other Characters                                                                         that features a large selection  
                                                                                                  of customizable pre-made  
Most or even all of the characters should know each other. As such,                               characters called “templates”. 
you need to collaborate with the other players (and even the Director)  
in order to tie the characters together somehow. Some ideas:                                      Rather than create characters  

                                                                                                  from scratch, the Director  
     •   The character is related to another character.                                           may choose to have the  
     •   The character is related to another character, but they don’t                            players take turns selecting  
         like each other much.                                                                    templates, starting with  
     •   The character is a friend of one or more of the other characters.                        primary characters and  
     •   The character is romantically involved with another character.                           moving on to secondary  
     •   The character is romantically involved with another character                            characters. 
         while having an affair with yet another character. 
     •   The character is in charge of another character.                                         The appendix itself has rules  
     •   The character has a crush on another character.                                          for customizing the templates  
     •   The character is a rival of another character.                                           to better suit your character  
     •   The character was picked up by the other characters while                                ideas. 
         hitchhiking. 
     •   The character didn’t want to be with the other characters, but  
         one character convinced him to come along. 
     •   The character is trying to protect one or more of the other characters. 

Character Tidbits 
Jot down a few interesting things about each character’s personality  
or past. You don’t have to go into great detail. Some ideas: 

     •   The character used to (and maybe still does) have strange nightmares. 
     •   The character has a severe phobia. 
     •   The character had a miserable childhood. 
     •   The character has a hatred of something (a situation, a type of  
         person, etc.). 
     •   The character enjoys a particular activity or hobby. 
     •   The character has a particular quirk (e.g., saying “totally” all the time). 
     •   The character suffers from a mental problem (paranoia,  
         depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, schizophrenia, etc.). 
     •   The character suffers from a physical problem (paraplegia,  
         blindness, asthma, etc.). 
     •   The character harbors a dark secret. 

This chapter is aimed at the players (hence its title). As a result, any  
mention of “you” refers to the player rather than the Director. 

                                                                                                               41. 

----------------------- Page 42-----------------------

New to Slasher Movies?                                     CHAPTER FIVE: 
Believe it or not, there are                                             THE PLAYERS 
actually people out there who  
have either never watched a  
slasher movie or have only  
watched a few of them. These                               “All right, we’ll all split up and search “All right, we’ll all split up and search  
                                                                              this whole area.”this whole area.” 
souls should be pitied and  
should be treated as outsiders.                                                                  Todd – The Burning (1981)Todd – The Burning (1981) 

I’m just kidding, of course. 
                                                   This chapter is aimed at the players (hence its title).  
If you’re slasher movie- 
                                                   As a result, any mention of “you” refers to the player  
challenged and are hoping to  
play this game, take a deep                        rather than the Director. 
breath and relax. You’re in  
good hands. 

                                                   UNDERSTANDING THE SUB-GENRE 
First of all, read through  
                                                   Chapter 2 presented a lot of solid information about the genre,  
Chapter 2. It offers a  
comprehensive look at the                          including an extensive list of common tropes. If you haven’t read  
sub-genre and dissects its                         that section, you should go back and do that before continuing.  
many tropes. 
                                                   The good thing about the slasher fi lm sub-genre is that nearly  
Secondly, read this chapter,                       everyone is at least somewhat familiar with how it works, at least on  
as it deals with applying what                     a fundamental level. If you go up to the average person on the street  
you learned in Chapter 2.                          and ask them about slasher fi lms, they will almost certainly mention  
                                                   that they involve unstoppable killers who prey on promiscuous  
Last, but certainly not least,                     teenagers. And, in a nutshell, that pretty much pegs the sub-genre. 
watch at least one of the  
fi lms. Doing so will drive                        Still, there’s more to it than that. In order to get the most out of  
home the facts that you                            Slasher Flick, you should immerse yourself in the source material  
picked up in this book and  
                                                   by watching a handful of the movies. There’s no substitute for the  
put them into perspective.  
                                                   real thing. However, this chapter attempts to present you with all the  
If you aren’t sure which  
                                                   most important aspects, for ease of reference. 
one to choose, you can’t go  
wrong with the 1978 classic,  
Halloween .                                        The more you understand the sub-genre, the more you’ll get out of  
                                                   the game… and the more you’ll be able to put back into it as well.  

                                                   TOP 5 TIPS FOR PLAYERS 
                                                   This section offers general advice for participating in the game as a player. 

                                                   Tip #1: Interact! 
                                                   If you take a good long look at any slasher ﬂ ick, you’ll fi nd that a  
                                                   large chunk of it involves interaction between the characters. This  
                                                   gives the audience a chance to form opinions on the characters and  

            42. 

----------------------- Page 43-----------------------

view them as living, breathing people before they stop living and  
breathing. If the audience doesn’t form opinions on the characters,  
then it means absolutely nothing when they die, which makes the  
death sequences meaningless. 

As a player, you should follow suit. Don’t just have your characters  
sit around and wait for the killer to come for them. This is  
especially true early on in the ﬂ ick. There will be enough time for  
getting killed later on. The earliest stages of the ﬂ ick should be  
about communicating and establishing relationships between the  
characters.  

Tip #2: Play Dumb! 
How many times have you seen characters in slasher fi lms do  
something stupid, prompting you to yell, “Oh, come on! Don’t go  
outside to check out the noise!”? Well, guess what? You now get to  
be the one who does these stupid things.  

Sure, you can have all your characters stick together in a big mob  
and stay inside for the entire game. Yes, you can ignore that noise  
coming from the darkness. You bet you can stay the hell away from  
a downed killer’s “body”. But where’s the fun in that? Don’t hesitate  
to do something stupid if it will make a scene interesting.  

We’re not advocating having your characters always making bad  
decisions. Far from it. If characters always do dumb things, the ﬂ ick  
would probably be over in thirty minutes. Just use your gut instincts  
to fi gure out when your characters should play to the genre when  
such decisions are involved.   

Tip #3: Accept Death! 
Characters are going to die. Period. In fact, quite a few characters are  
going to die. Some of them might even be primary characters. The  
simple fact is that you need to go into the game knowing that some  
or even all of your characters will meet their disgustingly bloody end  
before the game wraps.  

Once you come to terms with this, you’ll fi nd that character deaths  
can be fun, in a morbid kind of way. Sure, you should try to keep  
characters you control from dying, but not at all costs. This is  
especially true of secondary characters. In case you haven’t fi gured  
it out (though we’re sure you have), secondary characters are created  
to die. That’s kind of their job. They give the killer a chance to  
pad up his body count, all the while making his way toward a fi nal  
showdown with the last remaining character(s). 

                                                                                                    43. 

----------------------- Page 44-----------------------

                                      In some ways, it’s best to think of secondary characters as resources.  
                                      After all, you can use them to help you gain genre points that you can  
                                      assist your primary character with later on. If they die, so be it; you  
                                      even gain two genre points for the death. They’ve served their purpose.  

                                      Tip #4: Contribute to the Horror! 
                                      The Director will be working hard to maintain an appropriately  
                                      horrifi c mood during the game. But it’s not just up to her. You can  
                                      do your part too. First of all, keep your mind on the game. In other  
                                      words, don’t break out your cell phone and start text messaging your  
                                      friends in the middle of the ﬂ ick. Similarly, refrain from excessive  
                                      “out of game” talk. You may have had something interesting happen  
                                      to you at work that day, but surely you can wait until after the game  
                                      to talk about it.  

                                      Basic politeness aside, you can contribute to the atmosphere of  
                                      the game by putting your “all” into portraying the characters.  
                                      Don’t be afraid to get into character and give your fellow gamers a  
                                      performance that they’ll remember for many years to come. If your  
                                      character is frightened, play it to the hilt. If your character screams,  
                                      don’t just say “I scream” when you can let out a blood-curdling  
                                      scream of your own (unless, of course, there are kids or parents  
                                      sleeping in the other room). 

                                      Lastly, keep a close check on the humor. Most slasher fi lms have  
                                      humorous spots (even in tension-fi lled scenes), so it’s acceptable to  
                                      let some humor creep into the game at times. Just be careful not to  

44. 

----------------------- Page 45-----------------------

overdo it or else the horror will drain from the game’s atmosphere in  
a big hurry. 
  

Tip #5: Narrate! 
It’s all too easy to say, “I pound on the door and try to wake up the  
residents.” This is fi ne and all, but it hardly adds anything special to  
the game as an overall experience. And that’s what a game of Slasher  
Flick is: an experience. Instead of describing what your character is  
doing in such a mundane, utilitarian way, how about spicing up your  
description a bit? Try something more akin to, “I start frantically  
pounding on the door, constantly looking behind me to see if the  
killer is coming. I yell out, “Help me! Please!” This doesn’t require  
much more effort and makes your character’s actions seem more  
engaging. It helps the other participants more vividly visualize the  
scene that’s playing out. 

You don’t have to be a master storyteller in order to add some color  
to your narration. Nobody expects that. You aren’t a professional  
actor or orator, after all (well, most of you aren’t anyway). So don’t  
fret your descriptions too much. As long as you help the Director  
set the scene and entice the imagination, you’re doing your part to  
enhance the experience for everyone involved.     

EARNING GENRE POINTS 
As you know by now, genre points are handy to have around. They  
can pull your character’s butt out of the proverbial fi re in numerous  
ways (see pages 31-32). This makes them desirable to obtain.  

The nice thing is that individual characters don’t accumulate genre  
points; individual players do. This means that you can use secondary  
characters to put themselves in excessive danger (by taking  
unnecessary risks) in order to gain genre points for you. You can  
then take these points and use them for your primary character. As  
mentioned in Tip #3, secondary characters are a resource.  

Just don’t abuse the resource. By that, I mean that you shouldn’t just  
purposely get your secondary characters killed right off the bat just  
so you can acquire a quick burst of genre points. Besides, doing this  
can actually deprive you of genre points. If a secondary character  
bites the dust early on in the ﬂ ick, you won’t be able to use him to  
gain genre points for you later on. 

Also, you should consider spending your genre points on your  
secondary characters from time to time. Yes, this sounds like a  

                                                                                                              45. 

----------------------- Page 46-----------------------

                                       contradiction to what was discussed in the above paragraph and in some  
                                       ways, it is. After all, secondary characters are resources, right? Well,  
                                       yeah, they are. But they’re also characters that represent living beings.  
                                       If you can keep them alive while still adhering to the conventions of the  
                                       genre, then so much the better. But if not, it’s no big deal.  

                                       Ways to Acquire Genre Points 
                                       What follows is a list of actions that might prompt the Director to  
                                       throw genre points your way. Much of what you’ll fi nd here revolves  
                                       around the tropes and clichés found in Chapter 2. 

                                       Neglecting to Finish Off the Killer: You have the killer at your  
                                       mercy. He’s ﬂ at on his back and appears to be dead. Logic dictates  
                                       that you should take that opportunity to chop him up into little bitty  
                                       pieces. Don’t. The Director will likely fi nd a way to avoid that  
                                       anyway, so you might as well do the right thing by having your  
                                       character turn away from the “body”, drop his weapon and sigh in  
                                       relief.  

46. 

----------------------- Page 47-----------------------

Investigating Strangeness: Did your character hear an unexplainable                           The Cluster Problem 
noise? Did he think he saw someone standing outside the window?  
Well, what are you waiting for? Have him check it out!                                      If you want to drive your  
                                                                                            Director nuts, stay clustered  
Going Off Alone: Strength in numbers is overrated. Maybe your                               together with the other  
character needs to relieve himself. Perhaps he’s tired and wants to                         characters. She’ll love you  
turn in early for a good night’s sleep (yeah, good luck with that). Or                      for it. 
it could be that he needs something out in the garage. By going off  
alone, you are practically inviting the killer to take action, but you’ll                   Okay, that’s a lie.  
probably be well rewarded for it. 
                                                                                            The truth is that, while  
Say Genre-Appropriate Things: “I’ll be right back”, “It’s only the                          a little clustering is fi ne,  
wind”, “What’s the worst that can happen?”, “We’ll be fi ne”, “It’s                         doing it all the time does  
just your imagination”. All these things are perfect lines to have your                     nothing but detract from the  
character say. Watch a lot of slasher fi lms to expand your catalog of                      game. Killers seldom show  
phrases.                                                                                    themselves to too many  
                                                                                            characters at once, preferring  
Be True to Your Character’s Personality: Avoid doing or saying                              to pick them off one (or at  
                                                                                            most, two) at a time. It’s just  
things that go against the character’s established personality  
                                                                                            how they operate. Yet another  
unless there’s a damn good explanation for it. If you roleplay your  
                                                                                            convention of the genre. 
characters consistently (even when doing so isn’t technically a good  
idea), the Director is sure to take notice.  
                                                                                            By having your characters  
                                                                                            compulsively hanging close  
Having a Character Die: When a character you control dies, you  
                                                                                            to their peers, you’ll just be  
gain two genre points. 
                                                                                            causing the game to drag on  
                                                                                            and on.  

PLAYING SECONDARY CHARACTERS 
                                                                                            Do yourself, your Director  
Most roleplaying games encourage each player to play one character.                         and the other players a favor  
This works great for other games, but not for Slasher Flick. This is                        by venturing off on your own  
why there are primary and secondary characters.                                             from time to time.   

Throughout the book, you’ve been given what could be construed as  
mixed messages. At one point, the text will give you the impression  
that you should take a lot of risks with secondary characters in order  
to stockpile extra genre points. Then at another point, you’re being  
told to treat them with some caution and even to spend genre points  
on them. 

So, which is it? Should they be treated as expendable resources or as  
valued characters? 

To be honest, it’s kind of a fi ne line to walk and once you start  
playing, you’ll fi nd your groove. Until you fi nd that groove, here’s  
a piece of advice that should be of at least some assistance to you:  
Until a secondary character has a kill scene, take all the unnecessary  

                                                                                                       47. 

----------------------- Page 48-----------------------

 List of Character Roles 
                                                      risks you want so you can accrue genre points; but once the character  
Antagonist: This is the                               is in a kill scene, do your best to get him out of it alive… within  
character that the audience  
desperately wants to see get                          reason. 
butchered due to the fact that  
he/she creates conﬂ ict between                       The above advice is best taken only until you fi nd your natural  
the characters in some way.                           inclination toward developing your own play style. Each player’s  
The Antagonist is almost                              play style will emerge soon enough. Some players will lean toward  
always a secondary character,  
unless he/she does something                          letting the secondary characters die, while others will spend genre  
redeeming toward the end, in                          points to keep them alive. There is no right or wrong way to do it.  
which case he/she can be a  
primary character. 
                                                      PLAYING PRIMARY CHARACTERS 
Authority Figure: This  
character has, for whatever                           As has been mentioned previously, primary characters are meant to  
reason, some amount of                                be the ones that live until the last portion of the movie and maybe,  
authority over the other                              just maybe, even survive the whole fi lm. That’s reassuring and all,  
characters. It may be that                            but it doesn’t always work out this way. In any game that involves  
the character is a coach,                             random die rolls, the unexpected can happen at any given moment.  
teacher, student advisor, camp  
counselor, babysitter, or police                      And you know what? That’s okay. It’s better than okay, actually,  
offi cer. The authority fi gure                       because that’s what builds suspense. Whenever there’s uncertainty,  
can be a primary, secondary or                        suspense can’t be far behind. 
tertiary character. 
                                                      That having been said, the game is certainly slanted toward the  
Best Friend: This character  
is the best friend of another                         primary characters making it to the last segments of the ﬂ ick. With a  
character (often the protagonist)                     bit of care (and strategic use of genre points), the chances of having  
and typically doesn’t know                            your primary character survive all or almost all of the ﬂ ick are quite  
the other characters very                             good. 
well, if at all. He or she is just  
there because their friend is  
there. The best friend can be a                       It may be tempting to have your primary character play it extremely  
primary, secondary or tertiary                        safe in order to keep him breathing. Avoid this temptation. Avoid  
character.                                            it like the plague. If you watch the slasher ﬂ icks, you’ll notice that  
                                                      the primary characters tend to be in the middle of the action on  
Free Spirit: This character                           many occasions. They are the main characters (though some might  
puts hedonistic pleasure or  
thrills above all else. Examples                      argue that the killer is the main character), so get them into the fray.  
include sluts, party animals,                         Don’t hold them back just so they won’t buy the farm. The rules are  
stoners, drunks, hippies, pervs,                      weighted in their favor, so don’t be timid with them. 
surfers, extreme sportsmen,  
skaters, daredevils, and so on.  
The free spirit can be a primary,                     THE GROUP ARCHETYPE 
secondary or tertiary character. 
                                                      If there’s ever a time in which you are bored silly, watch a few  
Love Interest: This character                         slasher fi lms and analyze the types of characters that appear. You’ll  
is either already involved with                       fi nd that certain roles are almost always present. Some roles are  
the Protagonist or will become                        shifted in and out, though, to keep some variety. 
involved with him/her during  
the course of the ﬂ ick. Even if  
the latter is the case, it should                     Using the rules for character creation in Slasher Flick, you never  
be made obvious that there’s                          know what kind of a group you’re going to end up with. After all,  
“chemistry” between the two                           each player assigns stereotypes to the characters they possess during  
right off the bat. The love  

             48. 

----------------------- Page 49-----------------------

                                                                                                  interest is usually a primary or  
                                                                                                  secondary character. 
the second step of the process. This means that there’s typically no  
coordination between players on the matter, creating a hodge-podge                                Mr./Ms. Popularity: This  
of stereotypes.                                                                                   character is the one everyone  
                                                                                                  likes, either because of  
Should you and your fellow players want a more diverse, yet                                       charisma, looks, or both. It’s  
                                                                                                  the character that nobody  
coordinated group, you could get together and decide upon what                                    wants to see die because he/ 
roles your various characters will fulfi ll. This isn’t a rule; just a set of                     she is a good person. Mr./Ms.  
guidelines to help you balance it all out.                                                        Popularity can be a primary,  
                                                                                                  secondary or tertiary character.  
Before you ask, no, roles are not the same as stereotypes. A role is  
                                                                                                  Oddball: This character is  
more general and describes the primary function of each character  
                                                                                                  the square peg who doesn’t  
within context of the story. The role can be fi lled by any number                                fi t in with the other characters  
of stereotypes. For example, the Adversary role could be fi lled                                  for one reason or another.  
admirably by a “Mean-Spirited Bitch”, “Stuck-Up Rich Kid”, “Biker                                 Perhaps he’s a nerd, a sci-fi  nut,  
Bully” or “Trouble-Making Redneck”, even though each stereotype                                   headcase, an ultra-conservative  
                                                                                                  Christian, prankster or just  
is drastically different than the rest.  
                                                                                                  an ugly duckling. In almost  
                                                                                                  every case, the character  
Generally speaking, the three roles that should almost always be                                  should be socially awkward.  
present are:                                                                                      The authority fi gure can be a  
                                                                                                 primary, secondary or tertiary  
                                                                                                  character. 
                  • Protagonist 
                  • Antagonist                                                                    Protagonist: This is the  
                  • Love Interest                                                                 character that the audience  
                                                                                                  is supposed to identify or  
Talk to your fellow players and let decide who gets to create                                     sympathize with. Some movies  
characters to fi ll these roles.                                                                  have more than one, but rarely  
                                                                                                  more than two. The Protagonist  
                                                                                                  is always a primary character. 
Once those are fi lled, you can do the same with the following roles: 
                                                                                                  Rebel: This character tends  
                  • Authority Figure                                                              to go against the grain and  
                                                                                                  march to his/her own drummer.  
                  • Best Friend 
                                                                                                  This covers punk rockers,  
                  • Free Spirit                                                                   metalheads, bikers, outcasts,  
                  • Mr./Ms. Popularity                                                            goths, emos, gangbangers,  
                  • Oddball                                                                       thugs, criminals, etc. Rebels  
                  • Rebel                                                                         can be a primary, secondary or  
                  • Smart-Ass                                                                     tertiary character. 

                                                                                                  Smart-Ass: They say there’s  
The roles can be found in the sidebars of this page and the page prior                            one in every crowd and that’s  
to it.                                                                                            not far from the truth in horror  
                                                                                                  movies. This character is a  
                                                                                                  wisenheimer who makes it a  
Not every game will have every role included. In fact, you may  
                                                                                                 point to crack jokes or sling  
decide to allow multiple characters of a given role, as there’s quite                             quips at whomever seems to be  
a lot of wiggle room within each one. If you’d like a role fi lled that                           a good target. Some characters  
isn’t represented by primary or secondary characters, you can ask the                             do this good naturedly, but  
Director to include them as tertiary characters.                                                  most of them are just sarcastic  
                                                                                                  assholes. The smart-ass can be  
                                                                                                  a primary, secondary or tertiary  
                                                                                                  character.   

                                                                                                              49. 

----------------------- Page 50-----------------------

     Director’s Screen                                       CHAPTER SIX: 
Before the game begins,                                                THE DIRECTOR 
you might want to obtain  
something that will keep the  
players from seeing your                                    “Was it the boogeyman?” 
                                                            “Was it the boogeyman?” 
notes, maps and other hush-                                            “As a matter of fact, it was.”“As a matter of fact, it was.” 
hush stuff. This “something”                                                        Laurie and Dr. Loomis -- Halloween (1978)Laurie and Dr. Loomis -- Halloween (1978) 
is known as the Director’s  
screen. 

You can utilize a screen from                      This chapter is aimed at the Director (hence its title).  
another RPG or even a couple                      As a result, any mention of “you” refers to the Director  
of three-ring binders stood up                     than the players. 
side by side. 

Extremely ambitious                               THE BASICS OF DIRECTING 
Directors might even want to  
                                                   Being the Director is not an easy job. It’s a fun job, but not an easy  
create their own screen using  
                                                   one. This section describes the basics of directing a game. Each sub- 
cardboard. This is made even  
                                                   section below discusses one of the jobs you must do. 
better by gluing on reference  
sheets with pertinent game  
info (an overview of how                           Pre-Game Jobs 
kill scenes work, a rundown                        Before you sit down and actually play the game, you’ll need to do  
of all the special abilities,                     the following jobs: 
a summary of what genre  
points can be spent on, etc.).                     Preparing the Flick 
This makes the info easy to                        It’s time to prepare a ﬂ ick to run. This can be as involved or as  
reference during the game,                        uninvolved as you like. You could carve out an elaborate plot, rife  
reducing the amount of page-                      with secrets and an intricate backstory that interweaves all the  
ﬂ ipping you’ll have to do.                        characters into the overall story. Or you could just concoct a quick  

                                                  reason for the characters to be at the camp (or wherever) and let the  
                                                   fun begin. There’s no wrong way to do it. See “Preparing the Flick”  
                                                   for more information. 

                                                   Creating Tertiary Characters 
                                                   Most ﬂ icks should have at least a small handful of tertiary characters  
                                                  to fi ll them out. Thankfully, you can create these characters in just a  
                                                   few minutes each, freeing up your time for more important matters.   
                                                   See “Creating Tertiary Characters” for more information. 

                                                   Creating the Killer 
                                                  Your ﬂ ick isn’t going to be very exciting if there’s no murderous  
                                                  psychopath to terrorize the characters. It falls on your shoulders to create  
                                                  the killer’s game stats, which are entirely different that the game stats of  
                                                   other characters. See “Creating the Killer” for more information. 

            50. 

----------------------- Page 51-----------------------

In-Game Jobs                                                                                        Organization 
These are the jobs you take on while the game is being played. 
                                                                                            The most effective Directors  
Narrating                                                                                   are ones that keep their  
One of your main duties is to narrate the game. You are the primary                         materials organized while the  
storyteller in this ﬂ ick, so it’s up to you to verbally bring it to life.                  game is in progress.  

See “Narrating” for more information. 
                                                                                            While every Director is  
                                                                                            bound to have different ideas  
Rules Adjudicating 
                                                                                            of how to remain organized,  
As Director, you should know the game rules backward and forward.  
                                                                                            here are a few ideas that  
Failing that, you should at least know the biggest chunk of the rules  
                                                                                            might help out. 
and be familiar enough with the book to be able to fi nd any rule you  
don’t know. See “Rules Adjudicating” for more information. 
                                                                                             • Keep game statistics for  
                                                                                            your tertiary characters and  
                                                                                            the killer on index cards to  
                                                                                            conserve space. 

                                                                                             • Create a Director’s screen  
                                                                                            (as described on the opposite  
                                                                                            page’s sidebar). 

                                                                                             • Collect all the important  
                                                                                            info about the ﬂ ick into a  
                                                                                            three-ring binder or staple the  
                                                                                            pages together. 

                                                                                             • Keep the dice on the  
                                                                                            players’ side of the Director’s  
                                                                                             screen, as Director’s don’t  
                                                                                            roll dice often anyway. This  
                                                                                            will help reduce clutter in  
                                                                                            your immediate area.  

                                                                                                        51. 

----------------------- Page 52-----------------------

       The Three-Act                              Playing Tertiary Characters 
          Structure                               You are the one who gets to roleplay the minor characters the  
                                                  primary and secondary characters interact with. See “Playing  
Almost every slasher fi lm                        Tertiary Characters” for more information. 
follows the traditional three- 
act format that has been used                     Playing the Killer 
in fi ction practically since the                 You created the monster, so you get to play him. See “Playing the  
dawn of time.                                     Killer” for more information. 

You can put it to use when  
developing your ﬂ ick as well,                    PREPARING THE FLICK 
helping to ensure that the                        Nearly every slasher movie afi cionado has, at one time or another,  
game ends up feeling like a                       had the urge to write his own movie. Raise your hand if you’ve  
well-made slasher movie. 
                                                  mumbled that you could create a better fi lm than the one you were  
Here’s a summary of the                           watching. I’d bet that there are quite a few of you with your hand  
three acts:                                       held high in the air. As slasher movie buffs, we know the sub-genre  
                                                  better than anybody, right? We know all the ins and outs of these  
Act I                                             fi lms. We know what makes for riveting horror. And we know what  
Act I comprises the fi rst                        scares the bejeezus out of audiences. 
quarter of the ﬂ ick. It  
provides exposition, an                           That’s just grand, because now you get to show the world (or at least  
introduction to the characters  
                                                  your game group) just how good a movie you can dream up! Well,  
and the overall plot. 
                                                  more or less. You can devise a plot, create a killer, pace the scenes,  
It is during this phase of                        and create a mood. No, you don’t have total control over what  
the game that you will get a                      happens, but you do have a lot of say in the matter. The players will  
feel for who the characters                       be having a lot of say as well. 
actually are and how you  
can use that information                          There’s no “one true way” to craft a ﬂ ick. Every Director has her  
against them later on. That                       own approach, each one as valid as the next. 
may sound cruel, but it’s  
really not. The horror fi lms                     Flick Type  
constantly took into account  
the characters’ personalities                     One of the fi rst things you should consider is what type of ﬂ ick  
when devising their                               you’re going to run. Most slasher fi lms fall into one of two general  
undoings.                                         types, though it’s not unheard of for there to be a bit of crossover  
                                                  between them. 
Act II 
Act II comprises the next                         Location-Based Flicks 
two quarters of the ﬂ ick.  
                                                  The simplest type of ﬂ ick, this involves basically cooking up an  
It is the meat and potatoes  
of the story, wherein most                        excuse for the characters to go to a remote location and then letting  
of the murders occur. The                         the fi reworks begin. This is an oversimplifi cation to be sure, but  
characterization started in Act                   it can actually be that simple. Location-based ﬂ icks can be more  
I should be expanded upon                         extravagant than the above description would have you believe  
here as well. They should  

            52. 

----------------------- Page 53-----------------------

though. You can liven it up as much as you’d like by adding                                  begin partaking in whatever  
elements of event-based ﬂ icks (see below).                                                   activities they wish (doing  
                                                                                              drugs, having sex, exploring  
The key to this type of ﬂ ick is selecting just the right location. The                      the island, consuming mass  
                                                                                              amounts of alcohol, etc.). 
best locations have certain qualities, such as being isolated from  
civilization, having a creepy vibe, and boasting numerous interesting                        Act III 
areas/sites for suspenseful or scary scenes. Not every location has                          Act III comprises the fi nal  
to be a long way from civilization if you’re creative. For example,                           quarter of the ﬂ ick. In most  
it could be a burned-out department store that is isolated from                               cases, Act III begins when  
civilization due to the fact that the windows are boarded up and the                         the killer becomes exerted. It  
killer has bolted all the doors shut.                                                         contains two distinct phases.  

                                                                                              The fi rst phase is the climax,  
                                                                                             where the story reaches its  
                                                                                             maximum tension and forces  
                                                                                              a fi nal confrontation between  
                                                                                             the remaining character(s)  
                                                                                              and the killer(s).  

                                                                                              The second phase is the  
                                                                                              denouement, where there is a  
                                                                                              sense of calm and a state of  
                                                                                              equilibrium returns. 

                                                                                              The ideal denouement would,  
                                                                                              of course, be the survivor(s)  
                                                                                              escaping or ridding the world  
                                                                                              of the killer once and for  
                                                                                              all. That’s nice and pretty,  
                                                                                             but keep in mind that you’re  
                                                                                             playing Slasher Flick… and  
                                                                                              in Slasher Flick, it’s very  
                                                                                             possible that none of the  
                                                                                              characters will survive at all.  
                                                                                             As such, the denouement can  
                                                                                             be something less pleasant.  

                                                                                                         53. 

----------------------- Page 54-----------------------

      Location Maps                               Here are some ideas for locations: 

It’s always a good idea to                            •   A summer camp 
map out all the areas where                           •   A ski lodge 
the characters are likely to                          •   An old asylum 
spend much time. This is                              •   A run-down mansion 
especially true when running                          •   A back wooded area 
location-based ﬂ icks.  
                                                      •   An old school 
These maps needn’t be                                 •   A ghost town 
anything too elaborate. As                            •   An abandoned hospital 
long as you have at least                             •   A sorority/fraternity house 
something concrete to go                              •   A dilapidated department store 
off of, you should be fi ne. A                        •   A Civil War era army fort 
perfectly acceptable map of a                         •   A mountain resort 
major area could be drawn up                          •   A coal mine 
in 5 or 10 minutes in a pinch.                        •   A remote research station 
The details can be added as  
                                                      •   Long-forgotten subway tunnels 
they become necessary. 
                                                      •   A passenger train 
If you’d rather go a step                             •   An island 
further, you can get a pad                            •   A funeral home 
of graph paper and create                             •   A house in the wilderness 
your maps on it. This has the                         •   A plantation 
added benefi t of giving you a                        •   An old foundry 
sense of scale.                                       •   A shopping mall (after hours, of course) 

                                                      •   A castle 
There are also numerous  
                                                      •   A farm 
mapping programs available,  
specifi cally for use in  
RPGs. The most famous is                          Event-Based Flicks 
Campaign Cartographer,                            Event-based ﬂ icks require more work on your part than location- 
but that’s just one option.                       based ﬂ icks, but the results can be well worth the extra effort. Rather  
Others are out there. These                       than simply dumping the victims-to-be at a locale and letting the  
programs allow you to create                      killer carve them up, you’ll actually be arranging a sequence of  
consistent, detailed maps                         events that will transpire. This can be incredibly tricky. 
with all the bells and whistles  
you could ever ask for.                           The Backstory  
                                                  In almost every slasher fi lm, something has happened in the past  
Another option involves                           (recent or distant) that prompts or leads up to what goes down. The  
fi nding maps online and  
                                                  same can be said of ﬂ icks in the game. The backstory can be as  
printing them off. Google  
                                                  simple or elaborate as you like, as long as it’s interesting.  
is your friend. If your ﬂ ick  
takes place in a mansion, you  
can always type the keywords                      The main point of a backstory is to give the killer a motivation  
“mansion” and “map” (or                           for slaying people. It’s also handy for tying one or more of the  
“ﬂ oorplans”) into the search                     characters into the story, should you decide to do so.  
engine and watch the results  
appear before your very eyes.                     Once you come up with the backstory, you’ll need to decide how you  
                                                  will reveal it. There are three common ways to do this: 

            54. 

----------------------- Page 55-----------------------

Prologue                                                                                             Why Summer Camps? 
A partial prologue is the opening scene of the ﬂ ick wherein a small  
piece of the backstory is presented or hinted at. In some cases, you                                I’m only barely joking when  
can even have everything revealed during the prologue. If you want                                  I say that about fi fty percent  
the backstory to be a mystery at fi rst, the former option is the route to                          of all slasher movies take  
go, as you only give one or two pieces of the puzzle; just enough to                               place at a summer camp. 
make the players wonder what the heck is going on. 
                                                                                                    There are numerous reasons  
Generally speaking, the prologue is simply you describing the scene                                 for why camp is such a  
or scenes that take place. This is one of the rare instances that the                              popular setting for such fi lms.  
players aren’t actively involved. They’re just sitting back, listening                              These reasons also apply  
to your narrative. Since this is the case, keep the prologue brief.                                to why they work well for  
Players want to play. They don’t want to hear you drone on for thirty                              Slasher Flick. 
minutes.  
                                                                                                    For starters, camps offer a  
Alternately, you can run the prologue as a normal scene. If none of                                very wide array of settings- 
the primary or secondary characters are involved, toss some tertiary                               within-settings. You have all  
characters the players’ way and let them experience the prologue                                   the buildings that comprise  
fi rst-hand. Keep in mind, though, that you may have to be a bit more                              the camp, the dark woods  
                                                                                                    surrounding it, the obligatory  
heavy-handed with running a prologue than when you’re running  
                                                                                                   nearby lake, lonely roads  
a regular scene. After all, you really can’t afford to have your  
                                                                                                    leading to the camp, and  
backstory drastically altered by the tertiary characters’ actions, unless  
                                                                                                   plenty other possibilities  
you’re one of those Directors that enjoys having to ad-lib, even in  
                                                                                                    (cemetaries, tumbledown  
the face of overwhelming changes to the story.  
                                                                                                    shacks, creepy houses, etc.). 
  
In-Game Reveal 
                                                                                                   Another reason for their  
Using this method, the ﬂ ick’s backstory is revealed either all at once                            popularity is the seclusion  
or gradually during the game itself. That is, the players go into the                               aspect. It’s too far from  
ﬂ ick not knowing anything at all about what’s going on, but will fi nd                             civilization to just run for  
out as the game progresses, or even at the very end.                                               help when the killer strikes.  

                                                                                                    The would-be victims are  
This method is trickier to pull off, as you need to fi gure out what the                           more or less stuck out there,  
clues are and how to give them to the players. This isn’t as easy as                               trapped in an environment the  
it sounds. If you aren’t careful in your placement of the information,                             killer presumably knows like  
it will feel artifi cial. That’s never good. Aim for integrating the                               the palm of his hand. 
information in a logical manner and pull the players deeper into the  
backstory.                                                                                          Lastly, it’s an easy way to get  
                                                                                                    an eclectic mix of characters  
Plotting it Out                                                                                    to be in the story. They can  
                                                                                                    come from any walk of life  
Every ﬂ ick needs a plot, even if it’s paper thin… and believe me, a  
                                                                                                    and have drastically different  
lot of slasher movies have plots that are thinner than paper. If you  
                                                                                                    interests and personalities. It  
want to go light on plot, that’s perfectly fi ne. Location-based ﬂ icks  
                                                                                                   may sound like a lazy way  
are perfect for that.   
                                                                                                    out, but it works. 

                                                                                                                55. 

----------------------- Page 56-----------------------

    Cannibal Families                             Plotting a Location-Based Flick 
                                                  Taken at its most simplistic form, you can formulate a location-based  
Throughout the years, there                       ﬂ ick in minutes. Once you get the characters to the location you’ve  
have been more movies                             worked up, it’s just a matter of devising some possible scenes or  
involving families of                             ways for the characters to be lured away and (or) killed. These can  
cannibalistic hillbillies than                    tie directly into the sites that you’ve sprinkled around the location.  
you could possibly imagine.                       You can even add some events (see “Plotting Event-Based Flicks”  
There may be variations on                        below) to keep the game from getting too predictable. 
that theme with such fi lms,  
but there are some very  
common threads that seem to  
run through most of them.  

• The family almost always  
lives in a remote location  
(out in the middle of a desert,  
deep in the woods, etc.).  
This allows them to practice  
cannibalism pretty much  
unimpeded and makes it  
diffi cult for potential victims  
to escape to the relative  
safety of civilization. 

• By their very nature, these  
fi lms rely on grisly, splattery,  
bloody gore to achieve much  
of the horror. If running a                       Here are some ideas for possible scenes: 
game of this nature, make  
sure your descriptions of the                          •    The power goes out and the power generator is in the  
gore are positively stomach-                                basement. 
churning.                                              •    Something breaks down and the tools are in a tool shed. 
                                                       •    A pet disappears, prompting the owner to go looking for it. 
• One member of the family                             •    One of the characters sees someone outside, but by the time  
is a particularly large brute                               he tells the others, the person is gone. 
with uncanny strength and                              •    A tertiary character drops by and gives a cryptic warning. 
low-intelligence (often from                           •    A noise is heard in the woods. 
inbreeding).                                           •    A character has to go to the bathroom in the middle of the  
                                                            night, but there’s no bathroom… only an outhouse. 
• The head of the household  
is usually the ringleader                         Plotting an Event-Based Flick 
and mastermind behind the                         Plotting an event-based ﬂ ick is more demanding than plotting a  
family’s misdeeds.                                location-based ﬂ ick. You’ll need to develop various events to spring  
                                                  on the players. There are two types of events to consider: ﬂ oating  
                                                  events and concrete events.  
                    Continued... 

            56. 

----------------------- Page 57-----------------------

    •   Floating events are ﬂ exible and can be made to revolve                              • The two aforementioned  
        around the characters, or at the very least be easily altered                        family memebers are  
        by their actions. The only thing you need to worry about                             typically the ones who  
        is the order in which the ﬂ oating events occur. Example                             provide most of the evil of  
        ﬂ oating events: “Lori asks if the primary characters want to                        the story, but the other family  
        come over for a slumber party”, “Dr. Russell calls [insert                           members aren’t exactly  
        primary character here ] and tell him that his mother is in the                      upstanding citizens either.  
        hospital”, “James asks [insert primary character here] out on                        They just aren’t as proactive.  
        a date”.                                                                             All the family members  
    •   Concrete events are etched in stone and will happen at a                             should be statted up as killers  
        specifi c time, almost regardless of what the characters do.                         rather than tertiary characters.  
        These should always be accompanied by a day and time.                                Aside from perhaps the big  
        Example concrete events: “Saturday, 7:30 pm to 8:00 pm: a                            brute, they should have the  
        hitchhiker walks down the old road”, “Thursday, 2:17 am: a                           “Normal Person” component. 
        car wreck happens on the edge of town”, “Wednesday, 5:12  
        pm: the police pick up a suspect named Garvin Mueller”                               • The family often tries to  
                                                                                             capture the pretty females  
By setting up the events you want to happen, you’ll essentially be                           and keep them around for  
creating a ﬂ owchart of how the ﬂ ick should progress. Keep in mind,                         a while, but seldom waste  
though, that sometimes, ﬂ oating events won’t have a chance to occur                         time in slicing off chunks of  
due to the players’ actions.                                                                 captive males.  

Props                                                                                        • The family usually appears  
                                                                                             to be stuck in the past, at  
You can heighten the immersion factor of the ﬂ ick by giving the  
                                                                                             least by a few decades. This  
players props. A prop is basically just an object that the players  
                                                                                             gives them a backward,  
can hold, touch, read, look at or interact with. If the characters are  
                                                                                             anachronistic feel that can  
supposed to fi nd a letter in the ﬂ ick, recreate it and give it to the  
                                                                                             actually be quite unsettling  
players to read. If the characters are slated to come across an amulet,  
                                                                                             to players if you play it up.  
go to the thrift store and buy one to represent it. If the characters are  
                                                                                             Effectively taking players  
going to spend most or all of the ﬂ ick at a camp, work up a map of  
                                                                                             out of their comfort zone  
the area for the players. 
                                                                                             and putting them in a more  
                                                                                             primitive environment can  
Mood-Setting Methods                                                                         rattle them a bit and keep  
There are ways to amplify the mood without expending much effort.                            them off guard. 
This will make your job much easier later on. Relying on your  
narration alone to create a creepy vibe is certainly possible, but why  
not go that extra mile. There are two main ways to do this: lighting  
and music. 

Lighting is simply a matter of breaking out the candles or kerosene  
lamp. Make sure that you have enough light to see your die rolls and  
notes/character sheets by, though be careful not to have too much light.  

You can create ambience by playing music in the background.  
Ideally, you should assemble your own custom-made soundtrack  

                                                                                                        57. 

----------------------- Page 58-----------------------

 Casting Actors into Roles                          by using music from various sources. The most obvious source is  
                                                    soundtracks from slasher movies, but you can look to other sources  
If you’re coming up blank                           as well. Just make sure to include a few tracks for non-suspense  
when devising concepts                              scenes in addition to the more standard horror-themed tracks. 
for your tertiary characters,  
here’s an idea to try:                              CREATING TERTIARY CHARACTERS 

Select an actor, famous or                          Tertiary characters may be minor characters, but together they play  
not-so-famous, and build a                          a vital role in a ﬂ ick. Actually, they play several important roles (see  
character based on him or                           “Playing Tertiary Characters” on pages 77-78).  
her. This may sound odd, but  
it works. By using an actor                         There is no system for creating tertiary characters. There’s no  
(or really any celeb) as the                        need for you to spend a lot of time on characters that will, in all  
basis, mentage images will                          likelihood, have only a few minutes of screen time each. You’ve got  
undoubtedly fi nd their way                         more important things to do.  
into your head and the new  
character will emerge and be                        Follow these steps for creating a tertiary character: 
far more vivid than he would  
have been otherwise. 
                                                    Step One: Name the character. 
                                                    Step Two: Write a few notes about the character (occupation, secrets  
                                                    known, motives, role in the ﬂ ick, etc.). 
                                                    Step Three: Assign whatever ratings seem appropriate to the  
                                                    character’s stats. 
                                                    Step Four: Give the character whatever qualities seem to fi t him.  

                                                    CREATING THE KILLER 
                                                    At the center of every slasher ﬂ ick is the killer. The killer is not  
                                                    created the same way other characters are. In fact, he doesn’t even  
                                                    have stats or qualities. A killer is defi ned by the following: 

                                                    Basic Information: This gives us a few scraps of information about  
                                                    the killer. 
                                                    Damage Threshold: This determines how much damage the killer  
                                                    can take before being slain.  
                                                    Components: Components are like “building blocks” that ﬂ esh out  
                                                    the killer’s capabilities, advantages, disadvantages, and other such  
                                                    factors. 

                                                    There’s really not a “killer creation” system that you must abide by  
                                                    in Slasher Flick. It’s just a matter of choosing the damage threshold  
                                                    and selecting whatever components you feel fi ts your vision of the  
                                                    killer.   

             58. 

----------------------- Page 59-----------------------

Basic Information 
A killer should be more than a collection of components. He should  
be ﬂ eshed out and given some depth in order to make him truly  
memorable. You’ve got sequels to think of, after all. 

Name 
Most killers have normal-sounding names like Harry, Jason, Michael  
and Freddy rather than exotic, overly sinister names like Kaine,  
Damian and Vlad.   

Backstory 
The most compelling reason to fabricate a backstory is to give the  
killer a reason for being the way he is. Was he picked on as a child?  
Was he turned into a demon-like being after being slain by a group  
of people? Or is he simply the living embodiment of pure evil? The  
more detail you give his backstory, the more interesting he will be as  
a character. 

Personality 
We know he kills people. We even know why he does it. But so  
far, that’s all we know about him. We still don’t know any of his  
idiosyncrasies or patterns of behavior. Every killer should have a  
distinct personality and modus operandi. Otherwise, he will be a  
forgettable cardboard cutout rather than a memorable character that  
players want to see come back for the sequels.  

Damage Threshold 
Most killers have a threshold of 3, though you can adjust it to reﬂ ect  
tougher or weaker killers. 
  

Components 
As mentioned previously, components can be likened to building  
blocks for the killer. Select the ones that fi t how you envision the  
killer. Or you can create your own components to use if the ones here  
don’t fi ll your needs. 

Dark Secret 
The killer has a severe weakness that can kill him.  

Choose a dark secret that can give the killer damage tokens. Perhaps  
making the killer look into a mirror can slay him. Or maybe exposing  
him to sunlight will do the trick. How about burning a particular  
object? Use your imagination to come up with something interesting.  
It should never be easy to use the dark secret against the killer. 

                                                                                                           59. 

----------------------- Page 60-----------------------

 BEHIND THE SCENES:                               If the dark secret is discovered and used against the killer while he  
        Components                                is still invigorated, he simply gains a damage token. The Director  
                                                  should ensure that the killer doesn’t die too early in the ﬂ ick. Once  
While developing Slasher                         the killer is exerted, using the secret against him should kill him.  
Flick, someone asked me  
why I didn’t represent the                        Extradimensional 
killers as regular (albeit                        The killer lives in another dimension, parallel world, alternate  
really, really powerful)                          reality or plane of existence, and prefers to pull victims into his  
characters.                                       realm before killing them. He may be able to enter our dimension  
                                                  under certain circumstances.  

The answer to that question  
is that in the movies, the                       You must defi ne how the killer draws people into his realm (through  
                                                  dreams, by tricking them, etc.). You may or may not require the  
killers aren’t just characters.  
                                                  characters to make a successful Spirit check in order to keep from  
They are larger than life  
                                                 being pulled in. 
forces of evil  who are nearly  
indestructable.  
                                                  Familiar Face 
                                                  One of the female characters looks like a loved one from the killer’s  
At the same time, though,  
                                                 past (his mother, wife, sister, etc.).  
I wanted the game to be  
player-driven and I couldn’t                      How he reacts is entirely up to you, but in most cases, he will be  
easily do that if the Director                   hesitant to kill the character and may even attempt to connect with  
is taking up a big slice of                      her in a morbid way (capturing her, etc.). Unfortunately for him, this  
time rolling dice for the killer                 makes him vulnerable to any attacks made by her. The fi rst time this  
whenever he attempts an                           character attacks him, he automatically gains a damage token. After  
action.                                          that, though, he’s no longer affected by her appearance… unless the  
                                                  character purposely attempts to confuse him by pretending to be his  
The solution was to make                          loved one. This will require a Spirit check to convince him, though.  
it so that the killer succeeds                    If the check is successful, any successful attacks by the character will  
at most things unless the                         cause an extra damage token. Then, the illusion is broken again.    
characters prevent it. The  
downside was that killers ran                     Fearful Visage 
the risk of being too much                        The killer is particularly gruesome or intimidating in appearance. 
alike, with nothing to make  
each one distinctive.                             Characters that make freak-out checks due to the killer’s presence  
                                                 must roll one less die for the check. 
That’s where components  
fi srt entered the picture.                       Feeds on Fear 
                                                  The killer thrives on causing fear in his victims. 
Each component is designed  
to change the way the                            You’ll need to determine what boon the killer gets when a character  
killer interacts with the                         is freaked out (see “Freak-Out Checks” on pages 25-26). The default  
environment and the people                       boon is that a character who is afraid rolls one less die for checks  
in it... especially his victims-                  during kill scenes. 

to-be. 
                                                 As an option, you may decide that the killer cannot harm a character  
                                                 who is not freaked out. 

            60. 

----------------------- Page 61-----------------------

Hard To Kill 
The killer has a tendency to not stay dead very long. Even when it  
looks as if the characters have ﬁ nished him off, he could very well be  
back in their lives in no time.  

If the killer meets his doom while invigorated, there’s a chance that  
he’ll be back. The Director rolls a d6. On a result of 1-2, he’s dead,  
but on any other result, he returns to the game. Remove one damage  
token.  When a killer returns, it should be done dramatically (he sits  
bolt upright, he vanishes when the characters are distracted, etc.).  
These rules also apply if the killer dies while exerted, except that he  
stays dead.  

Linked Item 
The killer has some sort of link to an object that gives him power.  
Without it, he’s less effective. 

You’ll need to decide what the object is and how being without it  
negatively affects the killer. The default effect is that a character rolls  
an extra die (of the same type he normally rolls) for checks during  
kill scenes whenever the killer doesn’t have possession of the item. 

Linked Location 
The killer has some sort of link to a speciﬁ c location or region. While  
away from the locale, he’s less effective. 

You’ll need to decide where the location is (a specifi c street, a  
specifi c forest, etc.) and how being away from it negatively affects  
the killer. The default effect is that a character rolls an extra die  
(of the same type he normally rolls) for checks during kill scenes  
whenever the killer is not at or near the location. 

Low-Intelligence 
The killer is slow on the uptake and relies mostly on animal cunning  
and survival instinct to get by.  

When attempting to outsmart or trick the killer, a character rolls  
an extra die (of the same type he normally rolls) for Mind or Spirit  
checks. 

Miscellaneous Advantage 
The killer has some kind of edge that increases his effectiveness. 

You’ll need to determine the nature of the advantage (“doesn’t need to  
breathe”, etc.) and how it positively affects the killer. This is a catchall  
category that covers too much ground to present you with a default effect.  

                                                                                                             61. 

----------------------- Page 62-----------------------

                                     Miscellaneous Disadvantage 
                                     The killer has some manner of Achilles heel that can hinder him  
                                     severely...or possibly even lead to his downfall. 

                                     You’ll need to determine the nature of the disadvantage (“never  
                                     attacks children”, etc.) and how it adversely affects the killer. This is  
                                     a catchall category that covers too much ground to present you with  
                                     a default effect.  

                                     Mysterious Disappearance 
                                     The killer tends to disappear when things start looking bad for him.  
                                     This can be attributed to the classic “when the characters look up,  
                                     he’s gone” schtick or it might be true teleportation. Feel free to  
                                     create an explanation for it.  

                                     Every time the killer gains a damage token, roll a d6. On a roll of 5  
                                     or 6, the killer vanishes enigmatically. The kill scene is over. 

                                     Normal Person 
                                     The killer isn’t an undead monster, a physical manifestation of evil  
                                     incarnate, a demonic entity or anything like that. Instead, the killer  
                                     is just an average person with bad intentions.  

                                     When it comes to receiving damage tokens, treat the killer as if he’s  
                                     exerted at all times. Also, use common sense when giving the killer other  
                                     components; only take the ones that aren’t supernatural in some way. 

                                     Possessing Spirit 
                                     The killer is a spirit and has to possess others to function.  

                                     The nature of possession is up to you. By default, it requires a  
                                     successful Spirit check to resist possession, though you will need  
                                     to determine the means and methods. Once possessed, you can opt  
                                     to take over the character or allow more experienced role-players  
                                     continue playing the character while possessed. Possessed characters  
                                     should be given a chance to regain control every so often. This  
                                     requires a Spirit check, but the character rolls one less die than usual. 

                                     Punish the Promiscuous 
                                     The killer doesn’t stand for fornication and will go out of his way to  
                                     kill those who engage in sexual acts. 

                                     The killer should target any character that partakes in sexual  
                                     relations during the ﬂ ick. Furthermore, a character that has done so  
                                     rolls one less die for all checks (except freak-out checks) during kill  
                                     scenes involving the killer. 

62. 

----------------------- Page 63-----------------------

Signature Weapon 
The killer always uses a particular weapon when doing away with  
his victims.  

When attacking with this weapon in a kill scene, any survival point  
loss is increased by one. 

Situational Boost 
The killer gains an advantage under certain circumstances. 

You’ll need to determine what the circumstance is (while in the dark,  
when in water, when a victim is sleepy, etc.) and what advantage the  
killer gains from it. The default effect is that a character rolls one  
less die for checks during kill scenes whenever situation arises. 

Small Stature 
The killer is very small  
in size. He might be a  
sentient doll, a miniscule  
creature of legend or just  
a very short dude.  

Although the killer  
will be knocked back  
further than normal-sized  
characters, he is harder to  
damage by way of blunt  
impact-based attacks  
(being thrown, being  
punched, etc.). Whenever  
the killer would gain a  
damage token from such  
an attack, roll a die. On  
a 4-6, the killer doesn’t  
gain the damage token.  

Stalking the Prey 
The killer is inclined  
to watch his soon-to-be  
victims before moving in for the kill and often does so long before  
moving in for the kill. Even though he might sometimes be only  
marginally concealed, the victims seem to have a hard time spotting  
him. 

When a character makes a Brains check to see or hear the killer, he  
must roll one less die for the check. 

                                                                                                      63. 

----------------------- Page 64-----------------------

                                     Superhuman Strength 
                                      The killer possesses physical strength beyond that which a normal  
                                     human can possess. 

                                     If, during a kill scene, a character makes a check that involves the  
                                     killer’s brute strength (trying to rip the character’s face off, bust  
                                     through a door to grab the character, etc.), one matching result is  
                                     disregarded.  

                                     Tidy 
                                      The killer cleans up his mess after a kill in a very short span of time,  
                                     quickly moving bodies and cleaning up blood. He usually does this  
                                     when a character sees a body and goes to get the other characters.  
                                      The killer often likes to ensure that the bodies are found later, at a  
                                     dramatically appropriate time. 

                                     When a character brings others to see a body that is no longer there,  
                                     the character rolls one less die on the Spirit check to convince them  
                                     that there was really a body present moments before.  

                                     Trap-Setter 
                                      The killer knows how to make and use traps effectively, especially  
                                     ones that inﬂ ict gruesome wounds (bear traps, guillotine traps,  
                                     spiked pits, etc.). 

                                     During kill scenes, you can use traps as a means of a character’s  
                                     survival point loss. Aside from that, characters may stumble into  
                                     the traps when not in kill scenes. Spotting these traps requires a  
                                     successful Brains check. A character falling into such a trap must  
                                     make a successful Brawn check or Finesse check (whichever you  
                                     deem appropriate) or lose a survival point.   

                                     Was Always Such a Nice Person 
                                      This is typical of the classic serial killer. The killer is highly  
                                     intelligent and extremely good at planning ahead and covering  
                                     his often-bloody tracks. He’s also a master of misdirection and  
                                     manipulation, allowing him to send the characters completely down  
                                     the wrong path.  

                                     If a character starts to suspect anything weird about the killer and  
                                     attempts to make a Mind or Spirit check to get info out of him, they  
                                     may only succeed by rolling matching toppers.  

64. 

----------------------- Page 65-----------------------

Pre-Made Killers 
Have you ever wanted to run a game of Slasher Flick, but didn’t  
have any ideas about a plot or a killer? Well, if it ever happens again,  
this section will be there to help you out. 

Below, we present you with three psycho killers, along with some  
brief plot hooks for each one. These hooks aren’t fully ﬂ eshed out  
storylines; they’re just seeds to get your imagination churning into  
full gear. 

Kyle Hurst – “Porcelain Mask-Wearing Psycho”  
Kyle Hurst never knew what a “normal” family was. His parents owned  
a massive (but seedy) junk store and they spent most of their time there.  
By default, so did he. His days of childhood were spent roaming up and  
down the aisles, looking at the merchandise. He was most fascinated by  
the eerie-looking porcelain masks that always seemed to turn up in the  
store. “Fascinated” is actually a grave understatement. 

To be clear, Kyle was never “quite right in the head” anyway. He was  
slow to learn and his mind just didn’t operate the way others do. He  
seldom spoke and when he did, he only garbled a handful of words. But  
he always had this intense, probing look in his eyes; the kind that would  
rattle anyone’s nerves. Customers frequently complained that he creeped  
them out. 

One day, when he was 12, his parents were dealing with a particularly  
diffi cult customer in the back of the store. The guy was wearing  
an expensive suit and has a callous look about him. Kyle heard the  
disturbance and made his way to the backroom, but not before putting on  
one of the porcelain masks and grabbing an antique kitchen knife from  
one of the shelves. He arrived just in time to see his parents shot down  
by the man. This is all it took to send him over the edge. It wasn’t that he  
cared deeply for his family. It was simply that he saw bloodshed and it  
unleashed something evil deep inside his soul. He was like a shark seeing  
blood. 

With preternatural killer instincts, he leapt into his parents’ murderer,  
stabbing him over and over again until he was no longer moving. By  
this point, three curious customers within earshot came to see what the  
commotion was, only to be attacked by Kyle as well. They were brutally  
butchered. He then hunted down the rest of the customers, killing them  
all one by one.  

Then, he disappeared and was never seen again. That was ten years  
ago… and now, he has returned. 

                                                                                                           65. 

----------------------- Page 66-----------------------

                                       Appearance: Kyle is a normal-sized man who wears dark, ratty  
                                       clothes, leather shoulder pads of his own design and an eerie  
                                       porcelain mask. He tends to cock his head to one side when he  
                                       is trying to comprehend something or is confused. Beneath the  
                                       mask lies a surprisingly bland facer. It lacks the mutilations or  
                                       disfi gurements that one might expect to fi nd. He has unkempt,  
                                       shaggy hair and eyes that seem to peer right into your soul.   

                                       Components: Fearful Visage (porcelain masks are just spooky),  
                                       Linked Location (the Junk Store Building), Low-Intelligence,  
                                       Mysterious Disappearance, Signature Weapon (two kitchen knives) 

                                       Plot Hooks: 
                                       • One of the characters comes into possession of the old junk store,  
                                       which has been shut down since the murders. The characters are  
                                       spending the weekend in the second-story apartment above the store  
                                       in an effort to get it cleaned up and ready for business. Their timing  
                                       is bad, however, as Kyle Hurst has come home. 

                                       • The old junk store building is being condemned and the characters  
                                       are being paid to come in and clean it out. Little did they know that  
                                       Kyle has been trapped in a secret basement there since he was 12,  
                                       living on rats and water that seeped down into the room. And now,  
                                       the characters accidentally let him out. Oops! 

                                       • The old building has recently been refurbished and turned into an  
                                       elaborate teen center (complete with an arcade, CD store, a juice bar  
                                       and snack bar). After ten years of hiding, Kyle returns… and isn’t  
                                       pleased with what has become of his beloved junk store.  
                                          
                                       Clayton Roth – “Vile Spirit of a Sadistic Killer”  
                                       Born to wealthy plantation owners in 1823, Clayton Roth had the  
                                       proverbial silver spoon in his mouth from day one. His parents  
                                       spoiled him with everything he could ever want, but that wasn’t  
                                       enough. Clayton wanted more. During his early teen years, his  
                                       desires began to take a turn for the bizarre. He enjoyed torturing  
                                       small animals and continuously wanted more pets to replace the  
                                       ones he killed. At fi rst, his father resisted, putting his foot down  
                                       vehemently. As time went on, however, he relented, hoping to satiate  
                                       whatever strange urges the boy was having.  

                                       These urges didn’t go away -- quite the opposite. They began to  
                                       swell. Soon, small animals were no longer good enough to satisfy  
                                       his urges. By the time he was 16, he had moved on to torturing his  
                                       family’s slaves, particularly the ones who worked the cotton fi elds.  

66. 

----------------------- Page 67-----------------------

He dispensed unspeakable cruelties upon them night after night,  
terrorizing them relentlessly. And due to their low status, they were  
unable to do anything about it. 

After four years of being subjected to extreme torture at the hands of  
this twisted young man, the slaves decided to retaliate, regardless of  
the inevitable consequences. Late one night, as Clayton approached  
the slave quarters, the inhabitants were laying in wait. He walked  
through the door and was ambushed. The slaves overwhelmed him,  
tying him up and gagging him so that no one would hear his screams. 

For hours on end, they took turns torturing him the way he had  
tortured them. By sunrise, he was dead, splayed open with his guts in  
a heap at his feet. The slaves performed a voodoo ritual that would  
imprison his soul in a stone slab outside their quarters so that he  
would never be able to rest in peace. Immediately thereafter, they  
ﬂ ed the plantation, but it was only a matter of time before all but two  
of them were found and hanged.  

For well over 165 years, the soul of Clayton Roth remained trapped  
in the stone slab, where he was to spend eternity feeling the pain  
he felt in the last moments of his life. Unfortunately, nothing lasts  
forever. Due to unusual circumstances, he has returned and his  
sadism is about to be unleashed on the world once more.   

Appearance: Clayton Roth is now a spirit who can manifest as  
a solid entity at will. He is a normal sized man who wears a very  
fancy suit and top hat from the 1800s. His hair is black and nicely  
trimmed and he has a thin mustache. His eyes are deeply set with  
black all around them. His skin looks like that of a well-preserved  
corpse, aside from lacerations from the torture he received. Should  
anyone ever see his torso beneath his clothes, they would fi nd that it  
is simply an empty cavity, devoid of any entrails. 

Components: Fearful Visage (Come on, he’s a ghost!), Dark Secret  
(Can be banished again by performing an intricate voodoo ritual),  
Miscellaneous Advantage (Can become completely insubstantial),  
Mysterious Disappearance, Superhuman Strength 
      
Plot Hooks: 
• Now that he is unleashed upon the world again, Clayton Roth seeks  
to get revenge on his murderers by slaying their descendents. Since  
only two of the slaves survived the lynch mob, there aren’t many  
descendents to choose from. One of them is a primary, secondary or  
tertiary character. His or her family begins dying in a brutal fashion,  
leading the characters to believe that he or she is next. They have to  

                                                                                                               67. 

----------------------- Page 68-----------------------

                                        get to the bottom of things and do away with the spirit before he can kill  
                                        the descendent. 

                                        • The cool place to party these days is an old abandoned plantation  
                                        outside of town. While getting their drunk on, the characters accidentally  
                                        let Clayton Roth’s spirit out of the slab. The angry spirit seeks to torture  
                                        and kill everyone at the party. Will the characters live through the night? 

                                        • The local teenagers have been telling ghost stories about Clayton  
                                        Roth for decades, but no one truly believes them anymore. Still, the  
                                        tale has sparked the interest of a group of kids, who decide to rent the  
                                        place (which is still in great condition) on Halloween night so that they  
                                        can throw a party and have a séance. As it turns out, the owner of the  
                                        plantation is secretly the head of an evil cult and hopes to use the teens to  
                                        resurrect the vile killer.  

                                        Madison Malloy – “Killer of Killers”  
                                        The term “dysfunctional” doesn’t even start to effectively sum up  
                                        Madison Malloy’s family. Her father, Joel, was a paranoid schizophrenic  
                                        who had killed six people in the past, and her mother, Allison, was only a  
                                        little better off mentally -- she was a neurotic drug addict. 

                                        When Madison was 7, the voices in Joel’s head started telling him that  
                                        the world was going to end in 2012 and that his daughter would be  
                                        the only person capable of preventing it. In order to do so, she would  
                                        have to murder key individuals. Never mind that these supposed “key  
                                        individuals” were just random people. The guy was a nutjob. 

                                        Joel, for his part, decided to begin mold her into a killer. He physically  
                                        and mentally abused Madison on a daily basis and forced her to undergo  
                                        years of rigorous survival and combat training. He wanted her to be  
                                        just like him. Her sense of morality held strong for the longest time.  
                                        She resisted his attempts at mental conditioning with every fi ber of her  
                                        will. But when he forced her to kill her own mother, she snapped. Gone  
                                        was her sense of right and wrong. Gone was her innocence. And gone  
                                        was her compassion. In that one instant, this sixteen year-old girl was  
                                        permanently replaced by a cold, calculating murderer with voices of her  
                                        own.    

                                        From that point on, Joel focused on making her see what needed to be  
                                        done. And indeed she did see. Unfortunately for him, she saw things  
                                        differently than he did. In her mind, he was to be the fi rst to die in  
                                        her quest to prevent Armageddon. She brutally murdered him with a  
                                        woodcutting axe while he was working out. 

                                        With no parents to fetter her, Madison moves from place to place,  
                                        blending in whenever necessary. She is capable of passing herself off as a  

68. 

----------------------- Page 69-----------------------

sane woman for extended periods before the cracks begin to show. While  
pretending to be normal, the voices guide her toward her next victim.  
The victims tend to be other killers or those with aggressive behavior.  
Sometimes, though, they are apparently completely random people. 

Appearance: Madison is an attractive young woman with curly blonde  
tresses and penetrating blue eyes. She has an athletic build, standing  
5’11” and weighing 160 lbs. To look at her, you’d never know she was  
anything but a friendly girl with a great sense of humor.  When she  
does her killing, she dons a tattered, black hooded robe that disguises  
her gender and a ghastly opaque plastic mask with exaggerated features  
painted on.   

Components: Fearful Visage (The plastic mask/robe combo is freaky),  
Hard To Kill, Mysterious Disappearance, Normal Person, Trap-Setter,  
Was Always Such a Nice Person 

Plot Hooks: 
• The voices in Madison’s deranged mind single out one (or more) of  
the characters as the next victim, especially if the character has done  
something very bad in the past or if he is aggressive). She will stop at  
nothing to slay this character, forcing the other characters to thwart her  
evil plans. Perhaps Madison befriends the characters herself, pretending  
to be a good person. In reality, she’s trying to get close enough to strike.  
If the other characters prove to be problematic, she’ll happily eliminate  
them as well. 

• A killer strikes on the college campus attended by the characters.  
Madison should be introduced right away as someone they’ve known  
and hung out with since the fi rst of the semester. In a fun twist, Madison  
isn’t the killer. She has followed the killer to the college in an attempt to  
send him to the grave. As Director, you can head-game the hell out of the  
players with this plot by letting them catch glimpses of both Madison in  
her psycho garb and the killer in his garb. They will likely believe that  
there are two killers acting as a team, when in fact, it’s quite the opposite.  
The characters may get caught in the crossfi re of this killer-versus-killer  
struggle, making for a unique gaming experience.  

• One of the PCs starts having dreams about a masked and robed serial  
killer murdering one of the tertiary characters. When that tertiary  
character turns up dead, the characters begin to wonder if there’s  
something to the dream. Then, it happens again. And again. And, well,  
you get the idea. Eventually, it’s the primary and secondary characters  
that are getting butchered. Madison should be introduced as a recent  
friend of the characters. She believes that her voices are speaking to her  
through the character’s dreams, so whenever the character talks about the  
dreams, she makes them come true.  

                                                                                                           69. 

----------------------- Page 70-----------------------

       True Horror or                               NARRATING 
           Homage? 
                                                    “Narrator” is the hat you’ll be wearing the most. It is your duty to act  
It has been argued that                             as all the characters’ senses, which may seem daunting at fi rst, but is  
Slasher Flick isn’t truly                           surprisingly easy, especially once you direct a game or two. In fact,  
a horror game, but rather                           it will become second nature to you.  This section is full of advice,  
a celebration of all the                           which will hopefully help make your job a great deal easier. 
conventions of the sub- 
genre.                                              Tone 

                                                    Before we can get into any specifi cs of narration, you should decide  
I can’t necessarily disagree                       upon the tone you want the ﬂ ick to have. There are basically two  
with this assessment, but I  
                                                   tones to choose from, though there’s nothing stopping you from  
don’t necessarily agree with  
                                                    doing a hybrid of the two. 
it either.  

                                                    Tone #1: Horriﬁ c  
You see, it all comes down  
                                                    This is the default tone for Slasher Flick, so the advice given in this  
to how you and your players  
                                                    chapter will be focused on it. The ﬂ ick is all about being frightening,  
treat it in-game.  
                                                    and almost everything that happens should be intended to enhance  
If you thrust the inherent                         the suspense and scariness. There can be some light humor here and  
cliches into the spotlight and                     there, but by and large, things need to be serious. Emphasize mood  
make light of them, then it’s                      by giving evocative scene descriptions and by carefully pacing  
not going to come off as a                          scenes.  

“true horror game”. This is a  
perfectly viable way to play                        Tone #2: Schlocky  
the game and can be just as                        With this tone, you should be aiming toward the feel of a cheesy  
much fun as playing it in a                         B-movie. It can still be scary, but it takes a backseat to being good,  
more traditional manner.                            old-fashion, campy fun. Play up the fact that it’s supposed to be  
                                                    a movie by making note of the bad special effects and plot holes.  
However, Slasher Flick                              Likewise, encourage players to ham it up and over-act.  
works just dandy as a  
straight-ahead horror game,                         Narration 101 
where the cliches mostly  
                                                    Describing what’s going on in the game world (especially what’s  
serve to drive the story  
forward rather than act as the                      going on near the characters) is critical to the success of your ﬂ ick.  
                                                    If you fail to set the scene for the players, they will inevitably grow  
focal point.  
                                                   tired of trying to piece together sloppy narratives and give up on the  
So, is it a true horror game                        game. The good news is that, by following the basic advice below,  
or a celebration of the sub-                       you should have no problem keeping the game lucid for the other  
genre’s myriad tropes?                             participants. 

The answer is: yes.                                 Tip #1: Don’t Over-Describe… But Don’t Under-Describe Either 
                                                    The last thing you should do is drone on and on about the scene at  
                                                   hand. Over-describing a scene is a quick way to make players lose  
                                                    interest. On the other hand, you shouldn’t be so brief that important  
                                                    information is left out. Find a happy medium and stick to it. 

            70. 

----------------------- Page 71-----------------------

Example #1: “You step into the kid’s bedroom to check on him and                              More than Just  What  
he’s gone.”                                                                                            you Say 

While the above description adequately tells you the most important                         As the Director, it’s your  
information, it lacks excitement, drama or pizzazz. It’s utilitarian at                    job to draw the players  
best; staggeringly boring at worst. Let’s try this again.                                   into this terrifying world  
                                                                                            with your words. As such,  
Example #2: “You step into the kid’s bedroom to check on him and                            the words you choose are  
see that the room is covered in blue wallpaper with Jimmy Mouse                             of utmost importance if  
designs on it. The ﬂ oor is a dark wood, covered only partially                             you want to use them to  
by a throw rug in the center. On the left wall, you see a toybox                            maximum effect. 
overﬂ owing with cars, action ﬁ gures and other such toys. A tall,  
white dresser stands next to it. On the other side of the room is an                        However, word selection  
orange and yellow kiddie table with matching chairs. Above it is a                          alone is just a part of the  
window. Straight ahead of you is where the bed is located. It’s taller                      equation. Just as important  
than one might expect for a kid’s bed and has a colorful blanket. The                       is how you say those words.  
child is not in the bed.”                                                                   You can have the greatest  
                                                                                            vocabulary in the known  
Damn! That’s what you might call “information overload.” Not                                universe, but if you speak  
                                                                                            in a monotone or hum-drum  
only would this bore the hell out of players, it has an even worse  
                                                                                            voice, nobody’s going to  
effect: it sucks the drama out of the fact that the kid is gone.  
                                                                                            care.  
By the time the description gets around to mentioning the kid’s  
apparent disappearance, it comes off like little more than an  
                                                                                            For best results, use  
afterthought, which is definitely counterproductive. Let’s have  
                                                                                            your tone of voice, facial  
one more whack at it. 
                                                                                            expressions, hand gestures,  
                                                                                            and even the speed in  
Example #3: “Deciding that you need to check in on the kid, you  
                                                                                            which you talk as tools for  
open the door and peer into his toy-laden room. The lights are off,                         improving the effectiveness  
but the window ﬁ lters in enough moonlight for you to see his rather                        of the game. 
large bed. But it’s not the bed itself that attracts your immediate  
attention: it’s the fact that the kid isn’t in it!”                                         When a character is  

                                                                                            creeping down a dark,  
See? The above example provided all the necessary information                               creaky hallway after  
without bogging the game down. Moreover, it was told with a sense                           hearing a noise from a  
of drama and pacing, which we’ll discuss later. The players would                           nearby room, speak slowly  
be able to quickly get a feel for the room and still understand that                        and deliberately, affecting a  
the most critical part of the description is that the kid had pulled a                      quiet volume. 
vanishing act.    
                                                                                            But when the killer is  
Tip #2: Learn To Pace a Scene                                                               chasing a character, speak  
Pacing is the art of keeping the game moving at an appropriate                              quickly and a little louder,  
speed. If you’re running a heartfelt scene that involves two siblings                       adding tension to the scene.  
reminiscing about their mother who died a few years ago, you should                         And don’t let the player  
let the scene develop slowly. Let the players savor the drama and                           have too much time to  
perhaps feel the emotion emanating from the scene.                                          decide on his actions.  

                                                                                                       71. 

----------------------- Page 72-----------------------

Pressing the Creep-Out                         Contrarily, if you’re running a frantic, edge-of-your-seat kill scene,  
           Button                             keep the pace brisk and tense. Keep the descriptions minimal in  
                                               order to reﬂ ect the fact that the players involved wouldn’t have much  
Horror is only scary when                     time to notice as much about their surroundings. Make it snappy  
it gets under the skin of                      and don’t let the players have a whole lot of time to ponder their  
those experiencing it. That’s                  characters’ actions. 
the telltale sign of a good  
horror writer. He or she                       Tip #3: Evoke a Mood 
finds ways to creep people                    Use Tips #1 and #2 to help you evoke an appropriately spooky  
out and exploits it to the                    mood. If you’re building suspense (e.g., when a character thought he  
fullest capacity.                             heard a noise and is carefully moving around the house to see what’s  
                                              going on), speak softly and slowly, pausing between certain words  
While everybody is                             for effect. Then, when something startling happens, suddenly get  
different when it comes to                    loud!  
what creeps them out, there  
are certain things that seem                   Choosing the right words can go a long way toward evoking a mood  
to tingle the spine of the                    with your narration. Words like hideous, grotesque, appalling, grisly,  
majority.                                     loathsome, revolting, putrid and ghastly can be used to describe  

                                              gross things (the killer’s face, a dead body, etc.), while words like  
We’ll list a handful of these  
                                              dingy, macabre, shadowy, gloomy, run-down, looming, foreboding  
things below. You’d be  
                                               and bleak can be used to describe sinister settings. Develop a list of  
doing yourself a favor by  
                                              go-to words that you can throw at the players when needed.  
keeping them in the back  
of your mind when running  
                                               Tip #4: Improvise Wildly 
your games so that you  
                                              There’s simply no way to predict what your players are going to  
can whip one out when the  
                                               come up with. This often means that their ideas and actions will  
opportunity arises. 
                                              threaten to derail your carefully created plot. How do you deal with  
Clowns: There’s something                     it? By improvising like crazy! The worst thing you can do is tell  
about clowns that trigger                     the players that they can’t do something because it goes against  
panic and fear in a lot of                    your plot. Players cherish the notion that they have some measure  
people. Insert one into your                   of control over their characters’ actions. If you take that away from  
game and see what I mean.                     them, you’ll risk making them disinterested in the game. 

Little Kids: A spooky                         When the players deviate from the plot, run with it. Make stuff up on  
acting kid is enough to                       the ﬂ y and let them carry out their ideas. You can always nudge them  
freak people out, especially                  back on track eventually if they go too far off course, but don’t let  
if they look unnatural. Have                  them know that’s what you’re doing.  
the children cry or sing in a  
melancholy fashion for best                   Narration Techniques 
effect. 
                                              Now that you grasp the basics of narration, you should familiarize  
                                              yourself with some of the more advanced techniques. Most of them  
                                               are insanely simple to use, so don’t let yourself become intimidated  
                  Continued...                by it. 

           72. 

----------------------- Page 73-----------------------

Cutting Away                                                                             Dolls: Dolls (especially  
The status quo in roleplaying games is for the characters to stick                       ones of the porcelain  
together in one big group. This doesn’t usually work in Slasher                          variety) can be some of the  
Flick . Characters in the game will spend a lot of time being in                         most frightening objects  
separate locations, which keeps to the spirit of the sub-genre. If                       imaginable. 
the players instinctively stay together all the time, you should hit  
them with reasons to split up. In order for the game to work like the                    Creaking Noises: Players  
movies it emulates, characters have to spend some time apart.                            always lean in closer and  
                                                                                         zone in on the game when  
This raises a question. How do you handle running the game for                           they hear a creaky door or  
characters that are scattered out? By switching back and forth                           floorboards.  

between them, of course. This is known as cutting away.  
                                                                                         Storms: There’s nothing like  
You should strive to give all the primary characters equal time when                     a violent storm to heighten  
cutting scenes, though you shouldn’t worry too much about doing                          the mood and put the players  
                                                                                         on the edge of their seats.  
the same for the secondary characters. Generally speaking, try to cut  
                                                                                         Mention the storm often or  
to a different scene every fi ve to ten minutes. Otherwise, you’ll have  
                                                                                         -- even better -- have a sound  
a lot of bored players on your hands. 
                                                                                         effects CD or MP3 playing a  
                                                                                         storm in the background.  
A scene doesn’t have to be fi nished for you to cut away from it. This  
is even true of kill scenes. Just get to a good temporary stopping  
                                                                                         Insects: Want to really  
point and switch over.    
                                                                                         make your players’ skin  
                                                                                         crawl? Throw bugs  
Cut Scenes 
                                                                                         (preferably an insane  
The “camera” doesn’t need to be focused on the primary and                               amount of them) into a  
secondary characters all the time. The slasher movies often                              scene and watch them  
employed a method of showing what’s going on elsewhere. This                             squirm... the players, not  
method is called the cut scene and it can be a handy tool for you to                     the bugs. 
use during the game.  
                                                                                         Critters: Rats, bats, mice,  
A cut scene is simply a scene that takes place solely with tertiary                      snakes, crows and their ilk  
characters and (or) the killer. The players get to hear what happens,                    will send a shiver up many  
but it’s important to stress that their characters have no knowledge                     a spine. This is doubly true  
of the events that transpire during a cut scene. It’s just a narrative                   in great numbers. 
device that is used to make things more interesting. It also lets the  
players see that there’s more going on than their characters are  
experiencing. 

The most common use of cut scenes in slasher movies is for showing  
minor characters’ deaths. Normally, this would be a full-blown kill  
scene, but you needn’t waste your time rolling dice for it. Just narrate  
what happens, using as much drama as possible so as to not bore the  
players. 

In practical terms, you will be playing the roles of all the characters  
involved, unless you want to let the players take on the roles of the  

                                                                                                    73. 

----------------------- Page 74-----------------------

                                      tertiary character(s). If you go that route, you can opt to use the full  
                                      kill scene rules where applicable. 

                                       Should you decide to play all the roles yourself, you may feel  
                                       awkward talking to and answering yourself in character. Don’t give  
                                      up on it though. It’ll become more natural over time.  

                                       Sexual Scenes 
                                      Name one  
                                       slasher fi lm that  
                                       doesn’t have any  
                                       sexual scenes.  
                                       Go on, I dare  
                                      you. Okay, so  
                                      maybe a few  
                                       sexless slasher  
                                      movies exist, but  
                                      they are in the  
                                      minority. Vastly  
                                       in the minority, I  
                                      might add.  

                                      In the world  
                                       of roleplaying  
                                       games, however,  
                                       sex has always  
                                      been something  
                                       of a touchy or  
                                       controversial  
                                       subject. Many  
                                       gamers fi nd it  
                                      uncomfortable  
                                      to address sex in a game, which is decidedly understandable. For this  
                                      reason, you may choose simply to leave it out or at the very least,  
                                       lean toward innuendo and implication.  

                                      If the players have no issues with including scenes of a sexual nature  
                                       in the game, then you have a couple of options. The fi rst option is to  
                                       include sexual scenes, but gloss over them so that they aren’t very  
                                       detailed. This is probably the best option for most game groups. The  
                                       other option is to go into more detail with sexual scenes, though you  
                                       should try to keep things from getting too terribly out of hand in  
                                      terms of sheer sexuality.   

                                       Talk to your players before a ﬂ ick and fi nd out what their comfort level is  
                                       for this sort of thing. Alienating your players is never a good idea. Ever. 

74. 

----------------------- Page 75-----------------------

Flashbacks  
Flashbacks are a relatively common occurrence in slasher movies,  
especially for characters that have traumatic pasts. This can be a fun  
way to take a character’s tidbit and bring it to life, making it a part of  
the game rather than reducing it to being just another tidbit about the  
character’s past. 

Running a ﬂ ashback isn’t too unlike running any scene when it  
comes right down to it. The main difference is that you may need to  
reel things back into a particular direction if the scene strays too far  
off course. After all, you don’t want to change the character’s history. 

Brutality and Gore 
Extreme bloodshed is one of the key elements of the slasher movie  
sub-genre. Some fi lms make use of it more so than others, but it  
plays a part in nearly all of them. The amount of gore you include  
in a ﬂ ick should depend on how you and the players feel about it. If  
some of your players object to too much blood and guts, you should  
consider toning it down a little. If the players don’t mind, you can  
get as graphic as you want. 

Dream Sequences 
Another staple of the sub-genre, dream sequences come in two  
varieties: standard or covert. In a standard dream sequence, the  
player knows that it’s a dream sequence. You can get pretty wild with  
these scenes, since the player is under no delusions that the scene  
is nothing but a dream. With a covert dream sequence, the player  
should be led to believe that it’s just another scene. Most of them  

                                                                                                    75. 

----------------------- Page 76-----------------------

   OPTIONAL RULE:                               start with the character “waking up” and doing something normal  
        Snack Runs                              (taking a shower, getting a bowl of cereal, making a phone call, etc.).  
                                                Then, things start to get scary and (or) strange. Just when it looks  
A slasher movie just isn’t                      inescapable, the character wakes up and realizes that it was all just  
a slasher movie without                         a nightmare. Obviously, you can throw that formula out the window  
popcorn, soda and other                         and try new things, but that’s the standard way that covert dream  
snack foods that aren’t                         sequences occur. 
terribly good for you. Or,  
hey, if you’d rather munch                      RULES ADJUDICATING 
on something healthy, that’s  
certainly your prerogative.                     In order to adjudicate the rules, you’ll need to know the rules,  
                                                preferably backward and forward. The better you know the rules, the  
In a similar vein, snacks are                   easier adjudicating them will be. 
also part and parcel of a game  
based on those movies. Few                      Awarding Genre Points 
things are as much fun as  
                                                Players expect to be rewarded with genre points when they go out  
sitting around the game table,  
                                                on a limb to act in the spirit of the genre… especially if doing so  
role-playing and scarfi ng on  
                                                potentially puts a character in danger. Since this is the case, you  
some junk food (yeah, okay,  
                                                should be somewhat generous when doling them out. By and large,  
or health food). 
                                                you should only reward one genre point per genre-appropriate action  
                                                that actually adds something to the game. 
So, although some Director’s  
may frown on this practice,  
                                                Ultimately, it’s up to you to decide when an action warrants a genre  
you should feel free to offer  
                                                point. As a guideline, you should award a genre point if an action is: 
players a free genre point for  
going to fetch the food and  
                                                    a)   something that you often see in slasher movies.  
drinks from the kitchen. 
                                                    b)   something that puts the character in danger or adds to the  
                                                        entertainment of the game.  
After all, you’re the one who  
prepared the ﬂ ick and who                      Character Deaths 
will be running it. Besides,  
                                                When a character dies in the game, the player controlling him  
most players will jump at the  
                                                receives two genre points. 
chance to land a free genre  
point to use.  
                                                Rules Disputes 
                                                It doesn’t happen often, but there are instances in which one or  
                                                more player will disagree with how you have implemented a rule.  
                                                Perhaps he feels that the rule is unfair or maybe he thinks that you  
                                                have interpreted it incorrectly. Whatever the case is, you should  
                                                listen to the player’s argument and consider what he’s saying. If  
                                                you agree with him, don’t hesitate to change things accordingly,  
                                                even if it means tossing out or altering an existing rule. If, however,  
                                                you don’t agree with his viewpoint, explain politely that the rule/ 
                                                implementation stands. Your word is fi nal. 

           76. 

----------------------- Page 77-----------------------

Knowing When to Use the Rules                                                                      OPTIONAL RULE: 
The rules presented in this book are guidelines for you to use in                                  Taking Away Genre  
your collaborative storytelling experience. They are not the gospel.                                         Points 
Should one or more rule get in the way of the story, toss it to the  
wayside and move forth. The story is more important than adherence                              Not all players are looking  
to the rules. The rules should be stuck to primarily when they                                  to emulate the slasher fi lms  
actually add to the drama, such as during kill scenes.                                          when they sit down to play  
                                                                                                the game. They simply want  
Playing It Loose With Kill Scenes                                                               to go out and kill the bad guy.  

The only part of the game that has much structure is the kill scene                             Some Directors have no  
system. The system is the cornerstone of Slasher Flick and requires  
                                                                                                problem with this behavior,  
the added structure in order to keep things dramatic, exciting and  
                                                                                                fi guring that the players  
organized. 
                                                                                                in question are having fun  
                                                                                                regardless. 
That having been said, you can yank some of the rigidity out of the  
kill scene system if it makes sense to. Bend the rules if necessary, as  
                                                                                                Other Directors fi nd this  
long as it enhances the fun-factor and makes more sense.  
                                                                                                behavior to be disruptive. to  
For example, let’s say that the characters are at a cabin by a lake.                            the game. 

They hear something outside and investigate. Stepping out onto the  
porch, they see the killer on their boat, getting ready to tamper with                          If a player blatantly goes  
the engine. This prompts a kill scene. One of the characters takes out                          out of his way to defy every  
a gun and shoots, missing badly and losing four survival points as a                            genre convention imaginable,  
result. This would lower his total to a negative number, which would                            you can choose to take  
kill him. The Director might decide that it would be anticlimactic for                          away genre points. In all  
the gun to blow up in his face and put him in the grave. Further, he                            fairness, you should warn  
sees no logical way for the killer to retaliate and kill the character.                         him fi rst. Tell him that if he  
And lastly, he dictates that it really puts the character in no worse a                         continues to disregard the  
position than he was already in. All these things make him decide                               other players’ fun and simply  
that this check wouldn’t be counted as a crucial check.                                         run amok, he’s going to lose  
                                                                                                genre points each time he  
PLAYING TERTIARY CHARACTERS                                                                     engages in this manner of  
                                                                                                shenanigans.  
Tertiary characters can be a great amount of fun to play. More  
importantly, they fulfi ll several critical roles in the game.                                  This should only be utilized  
                                                                                                in extreme cases wherein the  
Your In-Game Voice                                                                              offender is acting this way  
                                                                                                just for the sake of screwing  
Tertiary characters act as your voice in the game. That is, they  
                                                                                                things up. 
are your key to communicating with the primary and secondary  
characters, giving them information, clues and red herrings. They  
                                                                                                If it’s just that the player  
can be great tools for conveying whatever it is you wish to convey.  
                                                                                                doesn’t grasp the sub-genre,  
                                                                                                you should instead take him  
Victims                                                                                         aside and give him a crash  
Need to establish the killer as a powerful force to be reckoned with                            course in slash-ology. 
early on in the ﬂ ick? Want to make the players cringe with terror at a  

                                                                                                           77. 

----------------------- Page 78-----------------------

                                   brutal murder? Want to make the characters cheer when an asshole/ 
                                   bitch gets slaughtered mercilessly? Tertiary characters can do all this  
                                   and more.  

                                   Mood-Setters 
                                   You can use tertiary characters to augment the mood. Perhaps the  
                                   character is an escaped lunatic who is lurking in the woods at the  
                                   same time the killer is. Maybe he’s a crazy old drunk who becomes  
                                   a self-proclaimed “messenger of God” whenever he’s tanked up  
                                   on whiskey. Or he could be a charismatic psychologist who knows  
                                   that the killer is nearby and tries to warn everyone. These types of  
                                   characters can help set the tone of the ﬂ ick. 

                                    PLAYING THE KILLER 
                                   Ah, yes. The murderer. The vile fi end. The slayer of teenagers. The  
                                   lunatic on the loose. Whatever label you want to slap on him, the  
                                   killer is the most relevant character in the ﬂ ick. Without him, you  
                                   don’t have much of a ﬂ ick. 

                                   Play To the Concept 
                                   When you create the killer, you should develop some idea about his  
                                   personality and how he behaves. When roleplaying him, stick to the  
                                   established personality like glue. The more you deviate from it, the  
                                   less believable and chilling his presence will be. If he’s supposed to  
                                   be a smart ass that slings morbid one-liners, don’t make him silent  
                                   during a kill scene. If he’s an emotionless killing machine that never  
                                   speaks, don’t make him talk.  

                                   Don’t Over-Use Him 
                                   So far in this book, we’ve stressed how absolutely important the  
                                   killer is. And we’re still stressing that. However, now we’re going to  
                                   stress that the primary characters are the stars of the show. They are  
                                   the protagonists; the ones who get the most “camera time”. There is  
                                   a strong tendency amongst Directors to insert the killer into almost  
                                   every scene. Fight this tendency with every ounce of your strength.  

                                   The less you show the killer, the more imposing he becomes. If he’s  
                                   running amok in every scene, the players will become too familiar  
                                   with him, and familiarity breeds complacency. You want the players to  
                                   dread seeing the killer step out from the shadows, not expect him to do  
                                   so. Some slasher movies never even allow anything more than a quick  
                                   glimpse of the killer, which works well for making him mysterious. 

78. 

----------------------- Page 79-----------------------

We’re not recommending that you never use the killer. We’re just  
saying to pick your spots for maximum drama.  

Learn the Art of Teasing 
Sometimes, teasing a kill scene can be just as unnerving and  
suspenseful as actually having one. Just when it looks like the killer  
is going to attack the girl who’s going out to feed the dog, the phone  
rings, prompting her to go back inside the house, thus denying the  
killer his golden opportunity to slash her throat. 

If you tease too much, though, the players will probably grow weary  
of it and spoil the game for them, so please be careful not to overdo it. 

Methods of Murder 
Slasher fi lm killers can be roughly divided into two camps: the ones  
that just get the job done and ones who get creative with their kills.  

Killers belonging to the fi rst category aren’t out to be ﬂ ashy with  
how they kill their victims. A stab with a knife gets the same result as  
using a weed eater on the victim’s face. These killers are perfect for  
low-gore ﬂ icks, as the bloodshed can be easier to imply rather than  
describe in full detail. 

Killers belonging to the second type seem to savor coming up with  
unique and colorful ways to dispatch their victims. This allows you  
to ﬂ ex your own creativity with devising such methods, which can  
provide a lot of fun for the morbid-minded. These methods lean  
toward the exceedingly brutal.  

                                                                                                       79. 

----------------------- Page 80-----------------------

                                    EMBRACING THE SUB-GENRE 
                                    Chapter Two of this book contains an exhaustive list of tropes  
                                    relevant to the slasher movie sub-genre. In this section, we take a  
                                    look at some of the more important of these tropes (as well as some  
                                    other topics) and analyze them from the Director’s perspective.  

                                    Sequels 
                                    When a slasher movie makes a wad of cash (and sometimes even  
                                    when it doesn’t), the fi lmmakers start banging out a sequel. And then  
                                    another. And another. And… well, you get the idea. The point is that  
                                    sequels are awfully common, which is great news for you.  

                                    The reason this is great news is that it allows you to use the same  
                                    killer and backstory multiple times, which saves you a lot of work  
                                    and lets you do some wacky things that just wouldn’t be possible  
                                    with just one ﬂ ick. 

                                    A sequel can be handled in several different ways. Let’s start with  
                                    the bad man himself (or the bad woman herself): 

                                        •   The same killer returns. 
                                        •   On the surface, it looks like the same killer returns, but it is  
                                            actually someone else. 
                                        •   A different, but similar killer is introduced. 
                                        •   An entirely different killer is introduced.   

                                    Now for the protagonists: 

                                        •   The surviving primary/secondary characters return. 
                                        •   One or more of the surviving primary/secondary characters  
                                            return, in addition to some new ones as well. 
                                        •   An entirely new cast of primary/secondary characters is  
                                            introduced. 

                                    Just be aware that sequels are known for being worse than the  
                                    original movie. Buck this trend. In Slasher Flick, there’s no reason  
                                    for the sequel to be inferior. In fact, if you put some forethought into  
                                    it, the sequel can actually surpass its predecessor(s). Just be sure to  
                                    put a different spin on the story without simply rehashing what has  
                                    come before. 

                                    Mystery Killer 
                                    Some slasher movies make no mystery of who the killer is. Others,  
                                    though, make fi guring out the psycho’s identity a major plot point.  

80. 

----------------------- Page 81-----------------------

Should you wish to go with the latter option, you should take some                                Red Herrings 
extra time and work in some clues to help the players solve the  
mystery. Clues can be easy to discern or extremely subtle. Ideally,                        Simply put, a “red herring” is  
the ﬂ ick should have both.                                                               just a misleading clue. If your  
                                                                                           ﬂ ick has a mystery killer, you  
You should also take great care not to screw up continuity within                          should sprinkle a few red  
the fi lm. If the character who is secretly the killer is with the                         herrings around in order to  
other characters when a murder takes place, then you’ll throw a                            throw the players off.  
monkey wrench in your own plan (unless you pull off something  
truly ingenious). Coordinate where the character is at all times, so                       Red herrings can be as simple  
as not to make it impossible for him to be the killer. Players are a                       as the characters fi nding an  
perceptive lot and will likely call you on such errors.                                    item that belongs to a suspect  
                                                                                           at the site of a murder, or  
Who Plays the Mystery Killer?                                                              as elaborate as a complex  
The most obvious answer is for the killer to be a tertiary character. If                   web of interconnecting clues  
this is the case, you should consider introducing quite a few of them                      that point to an innocent  
as potential suspects. This gives you the most control over the plot.                      character. 

Another option is to secretly talk to a player beforehand and inform                       Red herrings should be  
them that his primary character (or secondary character if each                            planted carefully but in a  
player controls specifi c secondary characters) is actually the killer.                    way that the players won’t  
Do this before you start plotting anything out, because if you don’t                       say, “Hmmmm. The Director  
and the player is uncomfortable with the idea, you’ll have to go back                      clearly wants us to think that  
and re-work the plot. If you let the player’s character be the killer,                     Dean the janitor is guilty... so  
you will still control him while he’s in “killer mode”.                                    it has to be someone else. The  
                                                                                           minute that happens, the red  
Checking Out The Unknown                                                                   herrings have failed you. 

A twig snaps outside the tent. A shadow is seen moving through the  
window. A barking dog suddenly yelps and then goes silent.  

What’s a character to do? In the movies, they habitually go outside,  
against their better judgment. In roleplaying games, players know  
jolly damn well that there could be (and probably is) something  
dangerous awaiting them, so they might be hell bent on staying  
inside and saying to hell with the unknown. And in a horror-based  
game, such an inclination could be troublesome. 

The rules are set up to encourage walking right into a potentially  
dangerous situation by way of awarding players genre points. For  
some, however, this is not enough. They just want their character to  
be safe, even if it means not playing to the genre. Fortunately, you  
have a fantastic tool at your disposal. I’m speaking, of course, of the  
freak-out check. If the character fails the freak-out check, you’re free  
to send him to check out the problem. 

                                                                                                       81. 

----------------------- Page 82-----------------------

                                      The other option is a bit less intrusive, but still very potent. If you  
                                      want to lure the character away, you can put one or more of the  
                                      character’s friends in jeopardy. Perhaps he hears his girlfriend  
                                      scream in the distance or maybe he learns that his best friend went  
                                      out into the woods twenty minutes ago. If you make it personal,  
                                      you may fi nd that the players will have their characters jump into  
                                      potentially nasty situations more readily. 

                                      Sex, Drugs and… Well, Just Sex and Drugs! 
                                      The quickest way to die in a slasher movie is to engage in premarital  
                                      sex and, to a lesser degree, partake in some drugs. These two things  
                                      will get characters killed lickety-split in most cases. Killers just can’t  
                                      stand this kind of raucous behavior, especially ones with the “Punish  
                                      the Promiscuous” component.   

                                      To represent  
                                      this, you can  
                                      opt to subtract  
                                      a survival point  
                                      from the guilty  
                                      characters’  
                                      totals whenever  
                                      they have  
                                      premarital sex  
                                      or use drugs.  
                                      In many cases,  
                                      especially with  
                                      sex, the killer  
                                      will show up  
                                      either during  
                                      fornication or  
                                      after it takes  
                                      place and kick  
                                      off a kill scene. 

                                      The players  
                                      should get some  
                                      incentive for their characters getting down and dirty or toking up.  
                                      Give them a total of two genre points immediately. A character can  
                                      only be given this award once per ﬂ ick.  

                                      The Last Girl 
                                      The “last girl” is a well-known slasher fi lm trope that suggests that  
                                      the last remaining character is inevitably going to be a female. This  
                                      theory rings exceedingly true in the sub-genre.  

82. 

----------------------- Page 83-----------------------

If you choose to hold true to this trope, give any surviving females  
two additional survival points each as soon as the killer becomes  
exerted. 

Early-Flick Kill 
The more slasher movies you watch, the more you’ll probably come  
to realize that it’s common practice for one of the characters to die  
early on. This is done for several reasons. For one thing, it gives the  
audience an opportunity to see how brutal the killer is, giving them  
a glimpse of things to come. Another reason is that it can drive the  
story forward. Or, more precisely, it can drive the other characters  
toward the killer. For example, if the now-deceased character  
was supposed to show up wherever the other characters are, said  
characters are going to eventually start wondering what happened to  
him, resulting in a search party.  

You can utilize the classic early-ﬂ ick kill to the same effect that  
the fi lmmakers do. In an RPG, it has the additional bonus of letting  
the players know that any character can die at any given time,  
heightening the sense of uneasiness.  

In a movie, however, pulling off the early-ﬂ ick kill is as easy as  
writing it into the script. With Slasher Flick, there is no script. You  
don’t have the power to automatically kill a character off… and  
even if you did, it wouldn’t be advisable to use it. In other words,  
there’s no guarantee that a kill scene that happens early in the ﬂ ick  
will result in a kill. The character could very well get away with  
his entrails intact. This is fi ne. The killer’s malicious nature is still  
preserved and it can still drive the story forward (especially if the  
character’s pals decide to hunt the killer down).  

If the character does die, dole out three genre points instead of the two  
normally awarded for character deaths. This should only apply to one  
death per ﬂ ick and only if the death occurs early in the ﬂ ick (use your  
gut instinct to tell you if the death is early enough to qualify). 

Character-Centric Flicks 
The classic slasher movie set-up involves a sizable pool of characters  
for the killer to chop his way through. Even though this is the  
standard method of doing things, a small number of fi lms buck the  
trend by focusing almost exclusively on only a few characters, most  
of which stay alive throughout the duration of the movie. 

This seemingly goes against everything we’ve discussed in  
Slasher Flick. We’ve been talking about killers hacking up loads  

                                                                                                          83. 

----------------------- Page 84-----------------------

                                    of characters and how characters are expendable. Suddenly, all this  
                                    information is useless for the kind of ﬂ ick we’re delving into in this  
                                    section. Or is it? Let’s look a bit closer. 

                                    There are two ways to choose from when creating characters. The  
                                    fi rst way is for each player to play a primary character, skipping  
                                    secondary characters outright. Any non-primary character deaths will  
                                    have to be done via cut scenes with tertiary characters. The second  
                                    method is to create characters as normal, but with the understanding  
                                    that secondary characters will probably have very little “screen  
                                    time”, since the focus is on the primary characters instead. In fact,  
                                    secondary characters should get roughly the same amount of screen  
                                    time as tertiary characters in more traditional ﬂ icks. 

                                    We’ve already established that this type of ﬂ ick revolves heavily  
                                    around primary characters. This being the case, it should be slightly  
                                    easier to keep them alive. According to the standard rules, each  
                                    primary character automatically ignores his fi rst loss of survival  
                                    points per ﬂ ick, regardless of the amount that would have been lost.  
                                    In a character-centric ﬂ ick, they can ignore the fi rst two losses of  
                                    survival points instead. At your discretion, you could even bump it  
                                    up to three. 

                                    Surviving Characters 
                                    Sometimes, they come back. Characters, that is. With many sequels,  
                                    the survivors are never mentioned again. They apparently go on with  
                                    their lives, doing whatever it is they have chosen to do after their  
                                    traumatic experiences. In some sequels, one or more of the survivors  
                                    return for another round, whether wittingly or unwittingly.  

                                    If a primary or secondary character survives a ﬂ ick and shows up  
                                    in the sequel, he receives two free genre points, indicating that he’s  
                                    lived through hell and is all the wiser for having done so.  

                                    Corpse Scenes 
                                    If you can name three slasher fi lms off the top of your head that  
                                    doesn’t involve a corpse scene, then I’ll give you a cookie. Or at  
                                    least a round of applause.  

                                    A corpse scene is a very common trope that happens late in the  
                                    movie. It involves the antagonist (often the Last Girl) ﬂ eeing from  
                                    the killer and running into the mutilated carcasses of all her friends,  
                                    one right after the other. 

                                    At the end of a corpse scene, the character must make a freak- 

84. 

----------------------- Page 85-----------------------

out check. If  
the character  
is a female,  
the freaking  
out process  
automatically  
includes  
screaming.  
This may sound  
chauvinistic, but  
facts are facts –  
guys don’t usually  
scream in horror  
movies.  

Let’s take a look at  
some nuances of  
the classic corpse  
scene: 

• Sometimes, the  
antagonist isn’t  
necessarily ﬂ eeing  
in the traditional  
“running like hell”  
fashion. She might be hiding from the killer and have to keep from  
screaming as she’s making the gruesome discoveries.  

• It’s common for the bodies to be specifi cally arranged by the killer  
to create a macabre scene of some sort. For example, perhaps the  
killer dresses the bodies up in formal wear and has them sitting at a  
banquet table. You may opt to penalize the character by –1 die, as  
these scenes are particularly disturbing to behold. 

• Often, a body will be above the character and will kind of just ﬂ op  
down right in front of her, still hanging upside down. 

• Another trick to pull is to have one of the bodies nailed/strung-up/ 
tied/impaled on the backside of a door, so that the character sees it  
upon opening (or closing) the door. 

• Many corpse scenes begin with blood dripping down onto the  
character. The character looks up to see the source of the blood – a  
dead body hanging from the ceiling.  

• After seeing the initial corpse, many characters back up… right into  
another one. 

                                                                                                        85. 

----------------------- Page 86-----------------------

                                         CHAPTER SEVEN: 
                                                         QUICK FLICKS 

                                      “We don’t need a stretcher in there. We need a mop!”“We don’t need a stretcher in there. We need a mop!” 
                                                            Ambulance Crewman -- A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984)Ambulance Crewman -- A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) 

                                     ABOUT QUICK FLICKS 
                                     Quick ﬂ icks are basically little more than “adventure seeds” that  
                                     you, the Director, can ﬂ esh out and run for your group. You’ll fi nd  
                                     that they are sketchy in spots, but this gives you some elbow room to  
                                     customize them to better suit the wants and needs of the players and  
                                     yourself. 

                                     This book presents three quick ﬂ icks for you to choose from.  
                                     Should the demand warrant it, more could very appear in future  
                                     supplements.  

86. 

----------------------- Page 87-----------------------

“WHERE STRANGERS ROAM” 
The ﬂ ick starts with the primary characters riding in a van to a  
concert, living it up and having a good time (a tertiary character  
should be driving). After they’ve had a chance to interact, they see  
a man walking down the road, carrying a guitar case. The tertiary  
driver pulls over and a conversation with the stranger should ensue.  
The man’s name is Gabriel and he is coincidentally heading to the  
same concert as the characters. He explains that his car had broken  
down several miles back. Even if the primary characters give him  
ﬂ ack, the driver offers him a ride. For his part, Gabriel is perfectly  
willing to pay them for their trouble, with money, drugs, etc.  

After a bit more driving and conversation, your characters come  
across some sort of road-ending obstacle that forces them to take a  
side road leading them away from civilization. Eventually, an old  
Victorian house should become visible. That’s when the van breaks  
down (or gets a ﬂ at tire or hits a deer). Unfortunately for them, this  
couldn’t have happened at a worse time or place, as the house and  
surrounding area is Kill Central. This is where Gabriel (yes Gabriel;  
you should have seen it coming!) will do his nefarious deeds. Have  
him mysteriously “die” or disappear in a manner that won’t let the  
players become too suspicious. At this point, it’s up to you to fi ll in  
the blanks. Why is Gabriel doing this? What connection (if any) does  
he have to the house? Is he acting alone or is someone else involved?  

Gabriel (Damage Threshold: 3) 
Trap-Setter: Gabriel loves fi nding creative ways to kill using traps. 
Feeds on Fear: People’s fear fuels his sadistic existence. 
Normal Person: He maybe a total basket-case, but is in fact  
completely human   
Hard to Kill 

“INHUMAN NATURE” 
For this ﬂ ick, the primary characters are divided into two small,  
separate groups that have no knowledge of each other’s existence.  
The only thing they know is that they are supposed to be meeting a  
realtor to discuss buying a house. As the ﬂ ick begins, the two groups  
arrive (almost simultaneously) at a large, old house surrounded by  
cornfi elds. The house looks pretty worn, but has a certain “homey”  
feel to it. After the players have had a chance to converse for a while,  
the realtor will arrive, apologizing for being late and for double  
booking. The realtor then shows the characters around the inside of  
the house, which is nicer on the inside and has curiously thick walls. 

                                                                                                     87. 

----------------------- Page 88-----------------------

                                    During the exploration of the house, the characters fi nd a box of  
                                    papers belonging to the previous owner stashed away in the top  
                                    of a closet. If they take the time to check the papers out, they will  
                                    fi nd an assortment of old newspaper clippings centering upon the  
                                    kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl by a violent rapist (Yes, this  
                                    page just got an R rating!). If the any of the characters make a  
                                    successful Brains check, they also fi nd a disturbing photograph of  
                                    the young girl, with blatant signs of abuse on full display. At this  
                                    point, the characters should somehow fi nd out that all the tires on  
                                    all the vehicles have been slashed, and they are now stuck here. You  
                                    can now feel free to begin brutally killing yours friends off in sick,  
                                    disgusting ways (because we both know you have been wanting to  
                                    do this for a very long time). Oh, did we say “your friends”? We  
                                    meant to say “your friends’ characters”). Yeah, that’s the ticket!  

                                    Your killer is in fact… (dramatic pause)… the young girl who,  
                                    after years of unrelenting abuse, lost all mental faculties, and now  
                                    just wants to kill. She fi nally escaped her captor and then brutally  
                                    butchered him. Of course, all this was unbeknownst to the realtor. 

                                    The Little Girl (Damage Threshold: 3) 
                                    Linked Location: Those nice thick walls are how she gets through  
                                    the house. 
                                    Low-Intelligence: Unbridled rage and no sense of right or wrong  
                                    (brings a tear to my eye). 
                                    Normal Person: She hasn’t quite reached the “I’m Invincible”  
                                    teenage stage yet. 
                                    Stalking the Prey: Curiosity and all that. 

                                    “CAMP BLOODBATH” 
                                    The characters are college-aged campers heading out to Camp Siesta  
                                    for a month of relaxation, fun and an unhealthy amount of partying!  
                                    What they don’t know, however, is that the campsite is used by a  
                                    bloodthirsty maniac to lure carefree young people to the area. Once  
                                    he captures them, he sacrifi ces them to an unnamable Lovecraftian  
                                    entity that slumbers beneath a nearby house, which is haunted by the  
                                    spirits of those sacrifi ced there. These sacrifi ces are carried out in  
                                    the basement of the house. With fresh meat at the camp, he plans to  
                                    repeat the process that he’s completed so many times before. 

                                    This ﬂ ick takes the standard “summer camp” formula and adds  
                                    supernatural elements, with ghosts and the eons-old creature  
                                    dwelling below ground. You could make the supernatural aspects  
                                    clear from the beginning if you’d like, having the characters fi nd  
                                    strange runes painted on cabin walls or something along those lines.  

88. 

----------------------- Page 89-----------------------

Or if you’d rather, you can make the players think it’s just another  
camp-based ﬂ ick, only to let them fi nd out that much more is afoot  
later on.  

If you want to draw more heavily upon the sleeping critter, you  
could make it so that the killer only has to sacrifi ce a certain number  
of people for it to awaken and wreck havoc. Of course, this quota  
will be reached with these characters. This allows you to have the  
creature rise from the ground, forcing the characters to fi nd a way to  
deal with it.  

The ghosts can be used simply for dramatic effect or they could  
be used to actually help the characters in some way. Maybe the  
characters can come up with a way to increase the ghosts’ power  
so that they can attack the killer themselves, thus avenging their  
senseless deaths. 

Lunatic Cultist (Damage Threshold: 3) 
Linked Location: They say a man’s home is his castle. If that’s true,  
this house is certainly his. 
Normal Person: While certainly insane and even perhaps evil, he’s  
still just a guy. 

                                                                                                              89. 

----------------------- Page 90-----------------------

                                          CHAPTER EIGHT: 
                                                             “THE VAULT” 

                                      “This looks like one of those old bomb shelters.”“This looks like one of those old bomb shelters.” 
                                           “That’s because it IS. Talk about a blast from the past.”  

                                                                                    Perry and Velvet -- The Vault (1987)Perry and Velvet -- The Vault (1987) 

                                      ABOUT THE VAULT 
                                      The Vault is a location-based ﬂ ick for up to four players. Regardless  
                                      of how many players participate, there should be a total of 6  
                                      characters (primary characters + secondary characters = 6).  

                                      This ﬂ ick is designed to be a group’s introduction to the game. As  
                                      such, we’ve attempted to keep it very simple, but with some fun  
                                      twists and turns. Even though certain events are set in stone, much  
                                      of the ﬂ ick is meant to be freeform. This allows the players to go out  
                                      and explore the environment as they see fi t, offering them a lot of  
                                      freedom.  

                                      The characters should all have a reason to be at a party and will, in  
                                      all likelihood, be relatively young (teens or early twenties). This  
                                      ﬂ ick takes place in 1987, so players should keep that in mind when  
                                      creating their characters, as well as when playing them.    

                                      Players should stop reading now! The rest of this chapter is  
                                      intended for the Director only. The rest of the text is aimed at the  
                                      Director.  

                                      THE BACKSTORY 
                                      You should familiarize yourself with the backstory before running  
                                      the game. You needn’t remember every little detail, but the gist of it  
                                      should be second nature to you. 

                                      The year was 1958. The world was a rapidly changing place as  
                                      it careened headlong toward the next decade. Technology was  
                                      becoming more advanced, social change was in the air and global  
                                      tension loomed like an ominous creature waiting to consume us all.  
                                      It was this tension that fueled the Cold War, making almost everyone  
                                      scared that the “Commies” were going to nuke us all.  

90. 

----------------------- Page 91-----------------------

The Red Lapel Society saw disaster on the horizon and, thanks to the                         The Red Lapel Society 
opinions of several quack astrologers and psychics, believed that the  
apocalypse would be heading our way in 1962. This led many of the                           The Red Lapel Society  
members to construct fallout shelters… just in case. Five members in                       was a small-scale secret  
particular took this to an extreme. William Bradford, Jacob Walker,                         society comprised almost  
Paul Billington, Richard Marvin and Ray Cunningham decided to                               entirely of bourgeois, white- 
build nice houses on the outskirts of town within close proximity                           collared males. It never  
of each other. This into itself wasn’t that unusual, but the fact that                     had much power beyond  
they also built interlinking fallout shelters deep beneath the houses                      the New England region,  
certainly qualifi ed as being quite unusual indeed. They essentially                       but it certainly had plenty  
constructed an underground community (which they called “The                                of pull there. Even though  
Vault”) for when the bombs started to drop. No expense was spared                          the society still exists, its  
in the construction process; the whole thing was elaborate.                                popularity and inﬂ uence  
                                                                                           peaked in the 1950s and ‘60s  
In September of 1962, when the Cuban Missile Crisis began, the                              and has been on the decline  
fi ve Red Lapel members wasted no time. This was it! They rapidly                           ever since, now consisting  
brought their families and important belongings down into their                             of only dozens of members  
subterranean retreat, where they were prepared to wait out the                             rather than thousands.  
nuclear radiation for 25 years. At that point, the lock would open up,  
they would exit the shelter and help repopulate the world.                                  The one aspect that set  
                                                                                           the Red Lapels apart from  
Of course, as we all know, nuclear war didn’t happen. But the                               other secret societies was  
families below ground had no way of knowing that. And given that                           they tended to be open  
the hatches to the Vault were well hidden, nobody above ground                             to mysticism, astrology,  
even suspected that they were there. It wasn’t something they told                          and other things that most  
people about, even their fellow members of the Red Lapel Society…                           societies would have written  
except for one. Richard Marvin’s wife Regina mentioned it to Linda                          off as being superstitious  
Campbell, the wife of another Red Lapel member.                                            nonsense. 

The fi rst fi fteen years were great for the inhabitants of the Vault.  
They had social gatherings, visited each other on a regular basis, let  
their kids play together, exchanged Christmas cards and generally  
acted as if everything was completely normal.  

This utopia was not meant to be, however. In 1977, William  
Bradford walked in on his beloved wife, Betty, having sex with his  
best friend, Paul Billington. He snapped. Picking up a nearby golf  
club, he pummeled Paul to death, bashing in his cranium until it was  
little more than a clump of mush. He then walked directly to the  
Billingtons’ shelter and commenced killing his former pal’s family  
one by one… until he got to the youngest son, Jimmy, who had  
been born in the Vault in 1965. By this point, Betty had caught up  
to William and begged him not to kill Jimmy. When asked why she  
wanted him spared so desperately, she was forced to admit that he  
was, in truth, her son. 

                                                                                                       91. 

----------------------- Page 92-----------------------

     Like Prologues?                          If the affair pushed him to the edge, this news shoved him right off  
                                              it. He spared Jimmy, but not for any manner of noble reason. Rather,  
The Vault lends itself well                   the 12-year-old boy was to become his scapegoat and outlet for his  
to a prologue if you like                     now-unsuppressed rage. William then made it look as though Paul  
opening your ﬂ icks that way.                 brutally murdered his own family, so as to not invite suspicion from  
                                              the other families. 
The most obvious epilogue  
would bet set in 1962.                        Once the families found out about the murders, nothing was the same  
The Red Lapel families                        between them. The innocence of this constructed utopia had been  
are all having a backyard                     shattered and they began to mostly keep to themselves. This triggered  
get-together. Spend a few                     William’s newfound paranoia, as he started thinking that they all  
minutes doing dialogue                        knew the truth and was avoiding him. He refused to be ostracized. To  
between the people in order                   these ends, he paid each family a visit and systematically butchered  
to establish them as members                  them. Well, not every family. When he was fi nishing off the Marvins,  
of a secret society and to                    Jacob Walker (the head of the last family he planned to eliminate)  
drive home that these are                     stumbled upon the scene and caught him red-handed. He ﬂ ed back to  
normal, healthy individuals.                  his own shelter and barred the metal door so that his family would be  
Cut to inside the house,                      safe inside. Unfortunately for him, he recalled that his wife and oldest  
where William Bradford is                     daughter had gone to the communal cold storage room to fetch some  
watching the nightly news on                  meat. It would be only a matter of time before William would fi nd his  
his television set. He looks                  two loved ones. He and his youngest daughter, Peggy, tried to think  
worried and comes outside                     of a plan to get them back before William, who was doing his best to  
to the party and announces                    get through the door, could harm them. But before they could concoct  
to his guests that it’s time.                 anything, they heard screams coming from outside. It was his wife  
Describe how the mood shifts                  and daughter returning home.  
immediately from festive to  
dead serious and sober.                       Without hesitation, Jacob unbarred the door and charged out to save  
                                              them… but it was too late. The blood-soaked William had already  
Before you jump into doing                    slain them. With no choice left to him, he shut himself and his  
the prologue, there are some                  remaining daughter back inside the shelter and mourned the passing  
things to consider. For one                   of half of his family. They have remained holed up ever since,  
thing, you run the risk of                    sneaking out only to stockpile necessities from the communal area.        
reducing the mystery. After  
all, it’s obvious that the Red                 Since pretenses could then be dropped, Jimmy was expelled from the  
Lapels and their families left                Bradford’s home, having to dwell in the corridors and vacant shelters  
willingly, eliminating certain                of the Vault. Despite all the abuse heaped upon him, Jimmy wanted  
conjectures as to their fates.                nothing more than to please William. He tried everything he could  
                                              to make William love him, but nothing was good enough. Every  
However, on the positive                      attempt was met with malevolence. This continued mistreatment  
side, you can really humanize                 drove the young boy insane and brought to the surface his own  
the Red Lapels and make                       violent temperament, which was never directed at William. After all,  
them seem like more than just                 he wanted to make William proud of him. 
a background plot device. 
                                              Jimmy grew up to be abnormally strong and detestable in his own  
                                              right. More out of curiosity than anything, he managed to breach  
                                              the metal wall of a hallway and dig through the dirt and rock until  

           92. 

----------------------- Page 93-----------------------

he got to the surface. He tried to convince William that there was no  
radiation, but William would have none of it.  

A year ago, he went above ground yet again and came upon a party  
in progress. Using stealth, he kidnapped a pretty (but very inebriated)  
girl named Wendy and brought her back down to the Vault with  
him, offering her to William. This was the fi rst gift William ever  
accepted from him, which pleased the young man greatly. William  
forced her to be assimilated into the family, treating her like a very  
young daughter. She has tried to resist, but was beaten or otherwise  
punished for her disobedience.            

Needless to say, William had not forgotten about the hatches  
automatically opening at the 25-year mark. His paranoia forbade  
him from reentering the outside world and is now perfectly content  
to remain in the Vault with his family for the rest of his years. As  
such, he has permanently deactivated the mechanism that opens  
the hatches. Unfortunately for him, one of the hatches (the one in  
the Billingtons’ old shelter) is still functional and hisses open at the  
designated time.    

That brings us to 1987, where our story begins. 

ACT ONE 
The Party 
Read or paraphrase the following: 

It’s a Saturday night in September of 1987 and the party is in  
full swing. Chuck Mulligrew was the mastermind behind this  
shindig, as he always comes up with the best out-of-the-way  
locations for these things. The police have never busted one  
of his get-togethers and it’s unlikely they ever will. Chuck  
may be kind of an idiot, but when it comes to parties, he’s  
like Albert Einstein or Max Headroom. 

This time around, he selected a hilly area just outside of  
town. Apparently the area was supposed to have been a new  
upscale suburban development neighborhood with a bright  
future several decades ago. Now, it has withered away to  
nothingness, leaving only a handful of now-vacant houses  
that were once extremely nice. According to local folklore,  
several families just disappeared without a trace up here,  
which led to the neighborhood’s downturn. 

Now, the yards are being overrun by tall weeds and drunken,  
horny teenagers. Loud music is being played via a boom box  
placed in a central location and everyone seems to be having  
a fantastic time. 

                                                                                                      93. 

----------------------- Page 94-----------------------

                                     Chuck lets out an annoyingly loud whistle and once he’s  
                                     gained everyone’s attention, he says, “Has everyone here  
                                     heard about the families who mysteriously vanished from  
                                     these very houses back in 1962?” 

                                     Everyone in attendance answers affirmatively. 

                                                                                                        th 
                                     “Well, tonight isn’t just an ordinary party – it’s the 25   
                                     anniversary of their disappearance. That’s right. 25 years  
                                     ago this evening, these people were here in their homes  
                                     and yards, walking their dogs, fixing supper, tucking their  
                                     children in and just living the American Dream. Then, all of  
                                     a sudden… they were gone. Poof! Just like that. And nobody  
                                     ever heard from them again. The authorities came out and  
                                     found no clues, no evidence, nothing. Some folks said they  
                                     moved away and changed their identities. Some said they were  
                                     dragged away by a cult and murdered. Others have said that  
                                     they were abducted by aliens.” 

                                     A low laughter can be heard before Chuck continues. 

                                     “But whatever the case may be, my Aunt Linda told me  
                                     something that she was sworn to secrecy on. You see, she was  
                                     best friends with one of the wives who disappeared and she  
                                     told her that they’d be going away for 25 years and that she  
                                     hoped Linda would be alive and safe upon her return. Well,  
                                     that was 25 years ago tonight. So, let’s have a good time, get  
                                     drunk and be ready to greet these people when or if they  
                                     arrive!” 

                                     The partygoers roar their approval and the party commences.  

                                     This is the part of the ﬂ ick where the players can interact and get  
                                     used to their characters’ personalities. If not all of the characters are  
                                     acquainted with each other, Chuck can be used as a mutual friend  
                                     who introduces them. 

                                     Try not to rush the party scene. Let them cavort and mingle with  
                                     the other partygoers. If this scene is abbreviated, you’ll risk the  
                                     characters being underdeveloped cardboard cutouts. If they’re not  
                                     proactive about it, use some spur-of-the-moment tertiary characters  
                                     to engage them. That should get them talking. 

                                     The topic on everyone’s lips is, of course, the families who  
                                     disappeared, so make sure that it plays a part in the conversations. 

                                     Once they’ve done a signifi cant amount of interaction, read or  
                                     paraphrase the following: 

                                     After several hours of debauchery, disappointed partiers  
                                     begin leaving one by one until only you and Chuck remain.   

94. 

----------------------- Page 95-----------------------

Sitting around a dwindling campfire near the northernmost                                               Houses 
house on the hill, Chuck voices his own disappointment. “I  
really thought something was going to happen tonight. What  
                                                                                             In this ﬂ ick, we refer to  
a major bummer. Ah well, you win some, you don’t win some. Let’s  
get out of here.” With that, he stands up and kicks dirt on                                  the residents’ (both current  
what was left of the fire. You feel bad for him, despite the                                 and former) living areas as  
fact that he just mangled an old saying, which is a pretty                                   “houses. While we  realize  
common occurrence for him.                                                                   that they aren’t houses in  

                                                                                             the truest sense, each one is  
Almost as soon as the fire is extinguished, the sudden sound  
of wood splintering and cracking cuts through the night,                                     modeled to look like a house.  
leaving everyone stumped. The noise is coming from within                                    As such, that’s what we go  
the nearby house.                                                                            with for the sake of clarity.  

Going Down 
It’s likely that the characters will want to check out the house. Doing  
so should net each of them a genre point, as it really drives the plot  
forward and is completely appropriate to the source material. 

If the characters are hesitant to go, use Chuck to goad them into it.  
If they still don’t react, you may have to get more creative, but don’t  
force them to. Perhaps Chuck goes alone and ends up falling down  
the shaft (see below), thus requiring assistance. 

The noise was made by a hatch ﬂ ipping open beneath the house  
and coming up through the ﬂ oorboards of the laundry room. Read  
or paraphrase the following to the players when they look into the  
room. 

The floorboards of the laundry room have been snapped and  
shattered, causing decades worth of dust to choke the air.  
Once some of the dust clears, you see a large metal hatch  
jutting up through the gaping hole in the floor. It looks  
like an access hatch to a shaft leading deep underground. A  
sturdy metal ladder is attached to the side of the shaft for  
anyone wishing to enter or exit it.    

Again, it’s imperative that the characters go down the ladder. Should  
they decide not to go, you could have the police hit the scene, having  
been informed of under-age drinking on the premises.  

If they decide to look under all the houses, each of the fi ve have  
hatches as well, but they aren’t opened and can’t be budged  
by normal means. They’ll have to go through a lot of effort to  
open them, such as getting a blowtorch or something else of that  
magnitude.  

The metal shaft extends forty feet below the ground and ends in a  

                                                                                                         95. 

----------------------- Page 96-----------------------

   Adding Suspense to                           featureless round room about fi fteen feet in diameter. There are no  
  the Exploration of the                        lights in the shaft or the room (the power is off), making it somewhat  
            House                               diffi cult to traverse the ladder. Characters should make a Finesse  
                                                check to avoid falling. Characters who fall will roll one less die for  
If you want to really spice                     Finesse checks regarding leg usage (or arm usage if you prefer). This  
up the scene in which the                       penalty lasts until the wound has been properly attended to (splint,  
characters are in the house,                    sling, etc.). 
there are some things you  
can do. After all, this is the                  In the room, there is only one exit – a thick metal door with a wheel- 
players’ fi rst impressions of                  style handle. The door opens easily by turning it clockwise. 
the Vault, so there’s nothing  
wrong with instilling a sense                   ACT TWO 
of danger and mystery right  
from the start.                                 Exploring the House 

                                                Let the players spend as much time looking around the house as they  
One of the most effective  
                                                want, within reason. See the map of the house on page 98) for the  
ways would be to describe  
                                                ﬂ oor plan.  
noises coming from  
elsewhere in the house. This  
                                                The house is obviously abandoned. Nobody has lived here for a long  
is best done before they fi nd  
                                                time, and it looks as if the former residents simply left one day, never  
the generator and turn the  
                                                to return – dishes still rest on the table, a magazine (from 1962) lies  
lights on. 
                                                open on the coffee table, the children’s beds are unmade and a toy  
                                                train sits on the living room ﬂ oor.  
The noises could be almost  
anything, including  
                                                The power generator can be found in Room 6 and can be turned on  
                                                with a successful Brains check. Until lights are turned on, all vision- 
• a little girl’s giggle, which                 based checks are made with one less die. 
turns out to be a creepy  
little “Laffy Susan” doll that  
                                                Any character searching the place must make a Brains check (with  
inexplicably still functions  
                                                the one-die penalty if it’s still dark). Several things can be turned up  
after years of disuse. 
                                                if successful. Each check should reveal one of the following clues: 

• a door slowly closing,  
                                                • Relatively fresh footprints can be found in the dust that blankets  
which is actually Jimmy  
                                                the ﬂ oors. These footsteps belong to Jimmy and are very large. They  
exiting the house. 
                                                seem to go to every part of the house. 

• other unexplainable noises,  
                                                • Blood stains in the living room and kitchen (Rooms 2 and 3). Let  
which may hint at this being  
                                                them know that it may not actually be blood, just to keep them off  
a supernatural/ghost ﬂ ick.  
                                                guard. 
It’s fun to keep the players  
guessing.  
                                                • A photo album that pegs the former residents as the Billingtons  
                                                can be found in the living room book shelf (Room 3). The family  
                                                consisted of Paul, his wife Patty, their daughters Meg and Marjorie,  
                                                and a very large son named Jimmy. 

            96. 

----------------------- Page 97-----------------------

• Contractor documents for the Vault are located in a drawer of the  
master bedroom (Room 5). Apparently, Paul Billington and Jacob  
Walker designed the facilities and contracted a company called Ace  
Construction to build it in relative secrecy.   

• A handful of “love letters” to Paul Billington from someone named  
Betty (Betty Bradford, but they don’t know that yet) are hidden away  
on the top shelf of the closet in Room 5 (the master bedroom). It’s  
obvious that an affair was going on. 

If you’d rather, you can forego the Brains check and let them fi nd the  
above items when they declare that they are searching. 

The following listings describe the rooms for not just this particular  
house, also for the other houses in the Vault. They were all created  
using the same blueprints and are, structurally speaking, identical.  
Feel free to change the décor of each house in your descriptions to  
reﬂ ect different tastes in furnishings and the like. 

Room 1 – Shaft 
This room is described in the “Going Down” section above. 

Room 2 – Kitchen/Dining Area  
This room is only separated from the living area (Room 3) by a  
step down (i.e., the kitchen is raised slightly). All the expected  
accommodations and appliances are present (refrigerator, cooking  
stove, sink, table, etc.). 

Room 3 – Living Area  
This room was intended as the primary area of relaxation for the  
family who lived here. It is slightly lower than the kitchen/dining are  
and contains a sofa, love seat and two chairs.  

Room 4 – Bedroom 
The house has two of these rooms; one created for male children  
and the other for female children. In addition to bunk beds and other  
typical furnishings, the room has a medium-sized closet.  

Room 5 – Master Bedroom 
This room is intended for the head of the household and his wife. It  
has a king-sized bed, nightstands, chests of drawers and a walk-in  
closet. 

Room 6 – Utility Room  
This room is the family’s one-stop storage and utility room. It  
contains a hot water heater, a large power generator, a step-in freezer,  

                                                                                                          97. 

----------------------- Page 98-----------------------

                                     washer, dryer, tool shelves and cupboards for dry foods. 

                                     Room 7 – Bathroom  
                                     This narrow room has all the required amenities – bathtub/shower,  
                                     toilet, sink and cabinets. 

                                     Once the exploration winds down or when the characters attempt  
                                     to exit the house (whichever comes fi rst), read or paraphrase the  
                                     following: 

                                     With all the suddenness of a lightning bolt, a resounding  
                                     clang can be heard throughout the house and probably far  
                                     beyond. The noise seems to originate from the shaft. 

                                     If the characters take a look-see, they’ll fi nd that the hatch has closed.  
                                     They’ll have to fi nd another route if they want to get out of there. 

                                                                                    7. 
                                                  1.1. 
                                     P                                                            6. 
                                                                    2. 
                                     A                                              4. 
                                     M 
                                         
                                     E 
                                     S           5 feet5 feet       3. 
                                     U                                              4.            5. 
                                     O 
                                     H 

                                     Venturing Out 
                                     Eventually, the players will more than likely want to exit the house  
                                     via the front door in Room 3. If so, read or paraphrase the following: 

                                     Exiting the house, you see a relatively wide metal hallway  
                                     stretching before you, heading directly away from the  
                                     front door. There are light fixtures along the walls but  
                                     apparently no power, so there’s no telling how long the  
                                     hallway actually is.     

                                     The players can decide on a course of action. As soon as they fi gure  
                                     out what they intend to do, but before they can actually do it, read or  
                                     paraphrase the following: 

98. 

----------------------- Page 99-----------------------

As you prepare to carry out your actions, you hear a clack  
echoing throughout the corridor, followed by a distinct  
whirring noise. Two seconds later, the lights come on, forcing  
your eyes to adjust accordingly.   

William Bradford is responsible for turning the lights. As it turns  
out, his sensors went off when the malfunctioning hatch in the  
Billingtons’ old house opened. He closed it by using the appropriate  
lever in the temple (see Room 12 of the Vault map on page 107)  
and then turned the lights on in that corridor via the main power  
generator in the power room (see Room 10 of the Vault map on page  
107). Now, he’s on his way back to fi x the hatch so that it doesn’t  
open again. This will put him on a route that should intersect with  
the characters’ route, assuming that they proceed down the hallway  
toward the intersection.  

Should the players take a different course of action (like going back  
and hiding in the house or some such), he will carry on to the hatch  
and make sure it won’t re-open, using a small tool kit that he’s  
carrying.   

Read or paraphrase the following when describing William. 

The man is blandly normal in size and shape, with nothing  
distinctive making him stand out, aside from the fact that  
he’s dressed in clothes that made him look like Ward Cleaver  
from “Leave It To Beaver”. He appears to be in his mid-50s,  
though he’s obviously held his age well. His hair is black  
and styled in a classic ducktail and his dark eyes are  
slightly obscured behind the lenses of his black plastic- 
rimmed glasses. A small tool bag is slung over his shoulder.  

Whatever the case is, William will be as surprised to see the  
characters as they will be to see him. He had no idea that anyone  
came through the hatch. 

Once he gets over the shock of seeing the characters, he introduces  
himself. He should come off as being quite friendly, yet a bit on the  
guarded side. They will undoubtedly ask him what’s going on around  
here and there’s no way he’ll tell them the truth. Use the info below  
as a guideline for him answering questions they might have. 

Regarding the Vault and its Purpose: William tells the truth about  
why the Vault was constructed (i.e., that he and his friends knew the  
world was going to end, so they had it built), but he doesn’t tell them  
that he’s a member of a secret society.  

                                                                                                     99. 

----------------------- Page 100-----------------------

                                      Regarding the Other Families: He acts as if all the families except  
                                      two are still down here. When asked about them, he says that the  
                                      Billingtons succumbed to a rare disease and died ten years ago, and  
                                      that the Cunnighams backed out at the last second and stayed above  
                                      ground. He pretends that the remaining families are best of friends  
                                      and have social gatherings often. 

                                      Regarding the Fact that no Nuclear Bombs Were Dropped:  
                                      It’s impossible to convince William that nuclear war didn’t occur  
                                      in 1962. He’ll wave them off with a bit of a smile if they persist,  
                                      fi guring that they’re pulling his leg. 

                                      Regarding the Hatch: He will tell them that the hatches were  
                                      designed to open once every 25 years so that radiation levels can  
                                      be tested. He’ll add that something must have went wrong, though,  
                                      because only one opened and it was supposed to stay open for an  
                                      hour. Obviously, this is all fabricated. 

                                      Regarding his Tools: They characters may ask him what he’s doing  
                                      with the tool kit, to which he will reply that he was ensuring that the  
                                      hatch was sealed tightly to prevent continual radiation from seeping  
                                      into the Vault. 

                                      Regarding the Footprints in the Billingtons’ House: He simply  
                                      says it was probably Jacob Walker, who sometimes checks the  
                                      structural integrity of the entire place. 

                                      Try to get in as much of the info above as possible. If they don’t ask  
                                      the right questions, have him somehow bring up some of the info of  
                                      his own accord in an effort to make them trust him. 

                                      Some characters may get belligerent, in which case he keeps his cool  
                                      and acts non-threatening. If they outright attack him, he’ll play the  
                                      role of the coward and run back to his house before locking his door.  
                                      If this plays out, have the characters here ominous noises coming  
                                      from somewhere in the corridors. Hopefully, this will take suspicion  
                                      off of William. 

                                      After answering questions and chitchatting for a few minutes, he’ll  
                                      tell them that he needs to get back to bed, but offers to let them stay  
                                      in the Cunninghams’ never-been-occupied house, which is nearby.  

                                      The house is identical to all the rest, except that it looks as if nobody  
                                      had ever lived in it. No real belongings still exist here; just furniture  
                                      and appliances. The bed in the master bedroom, though, has a  
                                      bunch of old, dirty blankets and other assorted cloth fragments on  

100. 

----------------------- Page 101-----------------------

it, resembling a nest of some sort. This is Jimmy’s primary sleeping                               Plotholes? 
place. The toilet has been in use as well, as evidenced by the feces  
stains. Should the characters ever ask William about all this, he’ll                      As you read through this  
blame it on the other families’ kids, saying that they like to play                       ﬂ ick, there’s little doubt that  
“camp-out” here.                                                                          you’ll fi nd some plotholes. I  
                                                                                          mean, come on. Why hadn’t  
Sleeping in the House: If the characters decide to sleep in the house,                    the Walkers gone after  
you can have some fun by describing creepy noises outside the front                       William and Jimmy with  
door, feelings of being watched, the sound of footsteps and so forth.                     their shotgun? How could  
In truth, Jimmy does come around, but he won’t attack or make his                         the Bradford family tend to  
presence obvious yet. Chuck elects to stay at the house, refusing to                      the farming chores all by  
budge. If he’s left alone, feel free to kill him off.                                     themselves? Or how could  
                                                                                          Jimmy feasibly manage to  
Going Elsewhere: It’s entirely possible that the characters will                          tunnel through rock and dirt  
refuse to sleep in the house due to the suspicious bed and stained                        to create a series of tunnels  
commode. In such a case, you’ll have to base what happens off of                          and a shaft that leads to the  
where they decide to go. If they explore instead of sleep, they’ll                        surface... with his bare hands,  
fi nd the Walkers’ house (see Room 4 of the Vault map on page 107)                        no less? 
locked up tight as a drum (no one will answer the door because  
they’re fast asleep). The Marvins’ house (see Room 5 of the Vault                         Were these plotholes  
map) is also locked up and since they’re deceased, they won’t answer                      intentional? 
the door either. Kinda goes with the territory of being dead as hell.  
The community area (see Room 6 of the Vault map) is accessible, as                        Well, no, not really. But at the  
is the door that leads to Rooms 7-11. The fi ve aforementioned rooms                      same time, I was simply more  
don’t even have locks on their doors. Normally, he locks the door                         concerned with what would  
leading to Rooms 7-11, but in his haste to get the malfunctioning                         make for an interesting story,  
hatch sealed, he forgot to.                                                               setting and background. After  
                                                                                          all, these kinds of plotholes  
Splitting Up: If the characters split up, Jimmy will not hesitate to                      are very much entrenched in  
attack. He likes picking off stragglers one by one (as any killer worth                   the movies this game is based  
his salt does).                                                                           on. All of them could easily  
                                                                                          be picked apart. But who  
In the Morning                                                                            cares as long as everyone has  
                                                                                          fun. 
At seven o’clock in the morning, William will knock on the door of  
the old Cunningham house and invite the characters to his house for  
breakfast.  Proceed to “Meet the Family” below. 

If some of the characters stayed but the others left, William will keep  
up the charade of being a swell guy to those who are still there. He’ll  
invite them to breakfast, but will make occasional remarks about  
the others being ungrateful and such. Proceed to “Meet the Family”  
below. 

If none of the characters are there, he will search for them and try  
to convince them to accompany him to his house. If they refuse in a  

                                                                                                    101. 

----------------------- Page 102-----------------------

  Only a Starting Point                            prolonged fashion, he’ll become enraged and storm off to his house,  
                                                   where he’ll arm himself with a shotgun before going out to search  
The further into a ﬂ ick                           for Jimmy. He’ll fi nd him in the tunnels (see Room 13 of the Vault  
you progress, the more                             map on page 107) and order him to kill the characters. Jimmy will  
opportunities players will                         then put forth a more concerted effort in doing so, even going so far  
(unknowingly) have to do                           as to attack them two or three at a time if need be. The rest of the  
something that is beyond                           ﬂ ick will become a hunt and kill type of game and the characters  
the scope of the written                           may never even meet most of William’s family or even fi nd out  
adventure.                                         any of the secrets of the storyline. And the great thing is that this is  
                                                   perfectly fi ne. It can still be a blast!  
At certain times, it’s fi ne to  
nudge the players so that                          Meet the Family 
their characters move in a  
                                                   This is a very critical part of the ﬂ ick, as it’s when the plot can really  
particular direction. But be  
                                                   advance forward. The players get to see that this perfect nuclear  
warned! Doing this too often  
                                                   family is anything but. Read or paraphrase the following: 
or too aggressively will lead  
to the dreaded Director no-no  
                                                   William walks in the front door of his house, with you in  
called “railroading”. Once                         tow. The interior looks immaculately clean and the smell  
the players have no freedom                        of fresh bacon and eggs lingers heavily in the air. A  
of action, the game will die                       beautiful, blonde-haired woman in her late forties has just  
a quick and miserable death.                       started setting the table with the help of her red-haired  
                                                   daughter, who looks to be in her late teens but was dressed  
And not in a cool, splattery                       to look much younger. As with William, both of them seem to be  
slasher movie way either.                          trapped in a time warp. The young lady glances briefly up at  
                                                   you and it’s obvious that something’s on her mind. 

It is therefore best to think  
of this ﬂ ick as a starting                        “I’d like you to meet my family. This lovely charmer is my  
                                                   wife, Betty and this is our precious little girl, Wendy.” 
point with lots of guidelines.  
It would be impossible to                          Wendy blushes and kisses William lovingly on the cheek. It’s  
cover every possible thing                         obvious that she’s the living definition of the old-fashioned  
the characters might do.                           doting wife who obeys her husband’s every command. The girl  
Impossible and pointless.                          quietly says, “hi” and goes back to setting the table. 

                                                   Play out the dinner sequence for a short while. Betty never says  
If things go awry and the  
                                                   anything interesting and will really only have something to  
characters go way off the  
                                                   contribute in the unlikely event that the conversation drifts over to  
beaten path, roll with it. They  
                                                   the topics of housekeeping, cooking or child-raising. She’s chillingly  
might even get back on track  
                                                   robot-like, which can be used to add a bit of “creep factor”. 
and if they don’t, ad-lib like  
crazy. 
                                                   As for Wendy, the players should be able to tell that she’s unhappy,  
                                                   but she actually says very little, unless prompted by someone else.  

                                                   After breakfast, Wendy offers to walk them to their new home, but  
                                                   William intervenes and offers to do it in her stead. The whole thing  
                                                   should be suspicious. 

           102. 

----------------------- Page 103-----------------------

An Unexpected Visitor 
Assuming that the characters stay put in their new house, they will  
hear a rather frantic knock at their door in the afternoon. Upon  
examination, they fi nd that it’s Wendy. 

The girl rushes in as soon as the door opens, acting more than a little  
paranoid and scared. She explains that she slipped out when William  
left the house to cut some meat and that she doesn’t have long before  
her absence will be noticed.  

She tells the tale of how she was a runaway from another city who  
was at a party a year ago and was knocked unconscious and abducted  
by a huge man. This man turned out to be Jimmy. When she woke  
up, she was at the Bradford residence, dressed in 1960s attire. They  
have forced her to be assimilated into their family since that time.  
She knows there’s a way out, but she was unconscious when she was  
brought down here. 

She explains that she found William’s journal and learned all the  
following things: 

• … that Betty and Paul Billington had an affair and even had a child  
together (Jimmy). 

• … that in a fi t of rage, William killed the Billingtons, but Betty  
begged him not to kill little Jimmy. He decided to spare him, but  
treated him cruelly 

• … that William made the Billingtons’ deaths look like a murder- 
suicide perpetrated by Paul Billington. 

• … that William killed the other families (she doesn’t know that  
two of the Walkers are still alive) because he thought they were  
suspicious of the Billingtons’ deaths. 

• … that once the other families were dead, William expelled Jimmy  
from the house and abusing him even more horrifi cally than before. 

• … that Jimmy is now insane due to his treatment by William and  
will do anything to gain his acceptance.   

• … that everyone that came down to live in the Vault were members  
of the Red Lapels and that there is a shrine/temple to which only  
William and one other unnamed individual have a key. The other  
individual is Jacob Walker, but this isn’t revealed. 

                                                                                                    103. 

----------------------- Page 104-----------------------

                                    • … that William had Paul Billington (who was his best friend) build  
                                    a network of very well-hidden access tunnels throughout the Vault  
                                    that only the two of them knew about. This is basically a plot device  
                                    to explain how William (and later Jimmy, who will be told of the  
                                    tunnels once the characters know about all this) can pull the classic  
                                    “horror movie killer” shtick of disappearing from one place, only to  
                                    reappear elsewhere a short while later. These are not marked on the  
                                    map.    

                                    She also adds that William is still trying to decide what to do with  
                                    the characters – assimilate them or kill them. 

                                    As soon as she gives them the information and interacts with them  
                                    for a few minutes, she leaves, explaining that if she doesn’t get back  
                                    soon, William will fi gure out what’s going on. If the characters try to  
                                    escort her home, she tells them it’s not a good idea, as he may catch  
                                    them on their way back to the characters’ house. 

                                    No More Mr. Nice Guy 
                                    At this point, the cat is out of the bag. Or more appropriately, the cat  
                                    shredded the bag with its claws. The characters now know what a  
                                    twisted bastard William is and that his “son” is deranged as well. 

                                    Regardless, William does fi nd out that Wendy visited the characters.  
                                    How he fi nds out is up to you. Perhaps he catches her re-entering the  
                                    house. Maybe he fi nds her hair ribbon by the door of the characters’  
                                    house. Do whatever you feel works best for the story. 

                                    William is a paranoid man and he can’t let the characters live now  
                                    that they are wise to his true nature. He alerts Jimmy and orders him  
                                    to eliminate them at his leisure, as he doesn’t think they can possibly  
                                    get out of the Vault. He also informs him of the hidden access  
                                    tunnels that run throughout the Vault. 

                                    Meanwhile, William takes the “traitorous” Wendy to the temple  
                                    (see Room 12 of the Vault map on page 107) to begin an elaborate  
                                    ceremony that involves sacrifi cing her. You just can’t go wrong with  
                                    a secret society that has occult tendencies. This ceremony will take  
                                    awhile, though the exact amount of time is unimportant. It should  
                                    take as long as it needs to in order to be dramatic and to give the  
                                    characters ample time to get the keys to the temple from Jacob  
                                    Walker. The keys are the only way to get through the temple door. 

                                    Of course, you have to have a way for the characters to learn that  
                                    Wendy is going to be sacrifi ced. This can be done in any number of  

104. 

----------------------- Page 105-----------------------

ways. Here are some recommendations: 

• The characters can hear Wendy scream at some point. This can  
easily be traced back to the temple, where they will hear William’s  
chanting coming from within. 

• The characters could somehow come across Betty, who will  
casually tell them that Wendy is to be sacrifi ced. It should seem to  
be no big deal to Betty, as if she were telling them that Wendy was at  
the store (or something equally mundane). 

• You can have occasional cut scenes wherein the players (not  
the characters) can see the ritual in progress. This should actually  
be used in conjunction with the other two options in order to add  
suspense to the whole ordeal.    

Let the Fun Begin 
The ﬂ ick now becomes very freeform. What happens will be almost  
entirely based on the characters’ actions and how the various kill  
scenes play out. You will need to become very familiar with the  
Vault map and the rooms, which are described below: 

Room 1 – The Former Billington Residence 
This house is unlocked and uses the map on page 98. The place is  
described in more detail on page 98. 

Room 2 – The Bradford Residence 
This house is always kept locked and uses the map on page 98.  

Room 3 – The Former Cunningham Residence 
This house is unlocked and is the one offered to the characters by  
William. It is very clean and made to look as if nobody had ever  
lived there. There is, however, a bunch of dirty blankets and rags on  
the bed and stains in the toilet. 

Room 4 – The Walker Residence 
This house is always kept locked and further reinforced by being  
barred. Like the others, it uses the map on page 98. Inside, the  
house is extremely cluttered; not because the Walkers are poor  
housekeepers, but because they have a lot of items and foodstuffs  
stockpiled.   

Room 5 – The Former Marvin Residence 
This house is always kept locked and uses the map on page 98. Like  
the former Billington residence, it looks as if the occupants just  

                                                                                                    105. 

----------------------- Page 106-----------------------

                                     walked away one day and left everything where it was. 

                                     Room 6 – Community Area 
                                     This room has no locks on the east or west doors. At one time, this  
                                     was the site of the jubilant parties, get-togethers and celebrations  
                                     put on by the Vault’s residents. Now, it sits as a sad, mostly-empty  
                                     reminder of what once was. It still contains a large banquet table,  
                                     several smaller tables, numerous shelves of books and a lot of chairs.  

                                     Room 7 – Dry Storage 
                                     This room has no lock. It contains numerous aisles of shelves loaded  
                                     with canned, bagged and boxed foods. 

                                     Room 8 – Cold Storage 
                                     This room has no traditional lock, but if someone goes into it and  
                                     lets the door shut, they’ll be locked in. This is where the frozen food  
                                     is kept. There are numerous shelves and three rows of hooks with  
                                     meat hanging on them dominate the center area of the room.  

                                     Room 9 – Multi-Purpose Room 
                                     This room cannot be locked. It is/was used for numerous things.  
                                     The westernmost portion is dedicated to repairs and such and is  
                                     laden with tools and building materials. The easternmost portion is  
                                     dedicated to butchering animals. Both sections are used for storing  
                                     non-food items as well. 

                                     Room 10 – Power and Water Room 
                                     This room has no lock. It houses a massive power generator and  
                                     equipment for purifying and processing water.  

                                     Room 11 – Freight Elevator 
                                     This large elevator goes from the primary ﬂ oor to the lower ﬂ oor and is  
                                     mainly used to bring fruit, vegetables and livestock up to the main area. 

                                     Room 12 – Temple 
                                     This room cannot be accessed without a key… and only William  
                                     Bradford and Jacob Walker have a copy of it. The door is made of  
                                     extremely heavy steel and is made to look very ornate. This is where  
                                     the members of the Red Lapels had their meetings and ceremonies.  
                                     Inside, there are chairs, a pulpit and an altar toward the back.  
                                     Mysterious symbols can be found everywhere. Toward the back of  
                                     the room, there is a hidden trap door covered by a rug. The trap door  
                                     leads to a tiny room 10 feet below that houses a series of levers.  
                                     These levers can open or close the hatches that lead above ground. 

106. 

----------------------- Page 107-----------------------

Room 13 – Cold Storage 
These tunnels were dug by Jimmy and it’s really just about the only  
way out of the Vault (the lever room in the temple being the only  
exception). While the map shows exactly how the tunnels are laid  
out, you shouldn’t hesitate to change things up, making them more  
like a confusing labyrinth with twists, turns and crisscrosses. In the  
southernmost chamber, a shaft leading to the surface can be found. 

Room 14 – Livestock Area 
This high-ceilinged area is comprised of several distinct sections;  
one for pigs, one for cows, one for chickens, one for turkeys and one  
for fi sh (which is basically a pond). This was intended to give the  
residents all the meat they could ever need. It also has a silo with  
grain in it and a barn with hay.   

Room 15 – Greenhouse 
This section is where fruit and vegetables are grown, as well as other  
plants that could be useful to the residents of the Vault.  

                                Main Level 
                                                              1. 
                 5. 
                 5. 
                                     11. 
                                     11. 
                                     9. 
 P                                   9.       10. 
                                              10. 
          13. 
 A        13.                     7.7.   8.8. 
 M 
                                                                           2. 
 T                                   6. 
 L 
 U                                   12. 
 A 
 V             4.                      11. 
               4. 

                                                           3. 
                                14.        15. 
             Lower Level 

This portion of the game is non-linear, so rather than discuss what  
This portion of the game is non-linear, so rather than discuss what  
happens next, let’s examine some possible actions the characters  
may take. 

Finding the Key 
The other temple key is with Jacob Walker, but the characters don’t  
even know that anyone aside from the Bradfords is still alive down  
here. They do know that someone else has the other key, so they will  
possibly try to search the various houses to see if the person kept  

                                                                                                              107. 

----------------------- Page 108-----------------------

                                     it in a drawer or something. The Marvins’ place is locked, as is the  
                                     Walkers’ house.  

                                     Feel free to let them devise a successful way to break into the  
                                     Marvins’ former abode, but if they go tampering with the Walkers’  
                                     door, it will suddenly swing open and they will fi nd themselves  
                                     staring down the barrel of Peggy Walker’s shotgun. She will force  
                                     them to come inside, where they’ll meet her father, Jacob. Once  
                                     the two are convinced that the characters aren’t in league with the  
                                     Bradfords (possibly requiring one or more opposed Spirit vs. Spirit  
                                     checks), the gun will be put down and they will fi ll the characters  
                                     in on their story. Jacob can be convinced to give them the key once  
                                     they trust the characters. Jacob himself is not in very good health  
                                     and Peggy has to take care of him, so neither of them will be able to  
                                     accompany them. You can have Peggy show up later to save the day,  
                                     though, if things look too bad for the characters. Having a tertiary  
                                     character save the day shouldn’t be a common occurrence, but it’s  
                                     okay to play that card on occasion. 

                                     Finding Alternate Ways to Get Into the Temple 
                                     Players are a savvy, resourceful lot. They will likely attempt to fi nd  
                                     another method for gaining entry to the temple.  

                                     One possibility is that they attempt to get the blowtorch from the  
                                     multi-purpose room (see Room 9 of the Vault map on page 107) and  
                                     use it to cut through the door. Or maybe they’ll try to take the hinges  
                                     off. Who knows what they’ll try. 

                                     If you don’t feel it’s dramatically appropriate or think if you feel it’s  
                                     too early for the ﬂ ick’s conclusion, you can have them distracted  
                                     by an attack by Jimmy. Or you could have the equipment (e.g., the  
                                     torch) malfunction. Use your creativity to keep it from happening.   

                                     If you feel it’s dramatic, let them do it, but don’t make it easy. Throw  
                                     in a complication that has to be worked around. If you make it too  
                                     easy, the climax of the game will seem less than climactic. 

                                     Escaping 
                                     The network of tunnels created by Jimmy (see Room 13 of the  
                                     Vault map on page 107) is almost the only really feasible way out.  
                                     If the characters try this too early, you can devise a way to prevent  
                                     it (a cave-in occurs, Jimmy is in there, the characters get lost, etc.).  
                                     Otherwise, you can initiate a dramatic kill scene with Jimmy as the  
                                     characters attempt to leave. 

108. 

----------------------- Page 109-----------------------

The shaft leading to the surface is in the southernmost chamber,                                     Meeting the Walkers 
but it’s no easy climb. Traversing it will require a series of three  
successful Brawn checks, all made with one less die than usual.                                   The text mentions meeting  
Characters who fall will roll one less die for Finesse checks                                     the Walkers if the characters  
regarding leg usage (or arm usage if you prefer). This penalty lasts                              try to break into their house,  
until the wound has been properly attended to (splint, sling, etc.).                              but that shouldn’t be the only  
                                                                                                  way to meet them. You can  
Finding Betty                                                                                     interject them wherever you  
Betty is at home, though she’s won’t answer the door. The door                                    need during Act III, though  
itself, though, is slightly ajar (probably from when William hastily                              Peggy’s usually the one who  
dragged Wendy to the temple), so they could just walk in.                                         gets out the most these days,  
                                                                                                  due to Jacob’s poor health.  
Betty will be acting even more strangely than ever – very spaced-out  
and oblivious to everything around her. She’ll barely acknowledge                                 The most dramatic way  
the characters’ presence, speaking monotone answers to any                                        would be to have Peggy save  
questions, using minimal words. She just stands in the kitchen with a                             the characters’ hides when  
dazed, far-away look in her eyes and humming an off-key song while                                things look grim for them.  
chopping meat for supper. If a character has already been killed,                                 Another way would be for the  
she’ll be cutting on his or her leg instead of a slab of beef.                                    characters to hear footsteps  
                                                                                                  from just around a corner.  
How the characters react to this unsettling scene should be                                       They will, of course, think  
interesting. On one hand, they may kill her (mainly if she’s hacking                              it’s William or Jimmy, but it’s  
on the leg of their friend); if so, she won’t resist. They can kill her                           actually Peggy, who was out  
quite easily (no roll needed). On another hand, they can try to get                               scavenging for more supplies  
through to her, but that is futile – she’s now too far gone to snap out                           in one of the storage areas. 
of it.  

Hunting Down Jimmy 
While this goes slightly against the conventions of the genre, this  
approach is not unheard of in slasher fi lms. The thing to remember is  
that Jimmy isn’t stupid and he knows every nook and cranny of the  
Vault. Plus, he now has access to William’s secret access tunnels. In  
other words, the characters will be at a disadvantage. 

If they decide to hunt him down, he will stay out of sight, striking  
when they least expect it. He will turn the hunters into the hunted.   

Holing Up 
Should the characters decide to cluster together and hole up behind  
a locked door, you can have plenty of fun with them. Jimmy could  
roll a Molotov cocktail through the ventilation system and into the  
room. Or he could just enter the room via a secret tunnel and attack  
them directly. A lot of fun can be had with players who think they’re  
keeping their characters safe by hiding behind a locked door. 

                                                                                                              109. 

----------------------- Page 110-----------------------

                                      ACT THREE 
                                       Inside the Temple 
                                       Eventually, the characters will probably get into the temple. When  
                                       they barge in, they’ll fi nd Wendy tied to the altar and William with a  
                                       ceremonial dagger raised above his head, ready to plunge it into her heart.  
                                       Of course, he’ll be so stunned to see the characters that he’ll pause. 

                                       If the characters try to reason with him, role-play it out. He’s not  
                                       stupid, however, and knows he holds the proverbial ace up his  
                                       sleeve. That is, all he has to do is stab downward and Wendy will be  
                                       dead… and that’s exactly what he’ll threaten to do. He demands that  
                                       the characters surrender or he’ll kill her. 

                                       If, at any time, the characters try to stop him by force or if the  
                                       characters stall too long, the kill scene will begin immediately. If he  
                                      wins initiative, his fi rst action of the kill scene will be to try to thrust  
                                       the dagger into Wendy’s chest. This can be prevented with a check  
                                       (probably Finesse, but you never know what the players will come  
                                      up with in a pinch).  

                                       Once it’s obvious that William is on the losing end of things (or  
                                      whenever you’ll feel it’s dramatically appropriate), have Jimmy  
                                       storm in through the door. In the confusion (when it’s his next turn to  
                                       act, William will try to slip away and go to the lower level so that he  
                                       can hide in either the livestock area (see Room 14 of the Vault map)  
                                       or the greenhouse  (see Room 15 of the Vault map). You can have  
                                       the characters make a non-crucial Brains check to notice him take  
                                       a powder. If they succeed, they detect him; otherwise, they are too  
                                       distracted by Jimmy’s unexpected arrival. 

                                       The kill scene will end at this point. A new kill scene begins with  
                                       Jimmy and any characters that remain there to deal with him. A  
                                       separate kill scene begins for the characters following William. This  
                                       means that you’ll be running two simultaneous kill scenes if some  
                                       characters stay behind and others follow him. See the sidebar on  
                                      page 29 for advice on how to do this. 

                                       If all the characters go after William, Jimmy will give pursuit,  
                                      hoping to kill them before they kill William. In this case, an all-new  
                                       kill scene begins involving all the characters, William and Jimmy. 

                                       The Lever Room  
                                       Hidden at the back of the room is a secret trap door covered by a rug.  
                                       The trap door leads to a tiny closet-sized room 10 feet below with levers  

110. 

----------------------- Page 111-----------------------

in it. These levers can open and close the hatches that lead to freedom.  

If the characters end up searching the temple, have them make a  
Brains check. If they are successful, the trap door is found. 

What About Wendy?  
Freeing Wendy from the altar during a kill scene requires two crucial  
Finesse checks (one for the feet and one for the hands). She is very  
traumatized and will retreat to a corner, unable to participate unless  
you prefer the idea of her stepping in to help out. 

If freed after the kill scene, no check is needed. 

Winning or Losing 
By the end of the “Inside the Temple” segment, one of three things  
probably should have happened: 

• The characters have all been slain. 

• William and Jimmy have been gotten rid of (whether killed or  
otherwise eliminated as threats). 

• The characters have escaped without killing William and (or) Jimmy. 

Dead Characters 
If all the characters are dead, you should consider describing an  
epilogue that sets up a sequel. After all, the killers (or at least one  
of them) are still alive and kicking, ready for the next batch of  
interlopers to fi nd their way to the Vault. 

William and (or) Jimmy Are Dead 
If William and (or) Jimmy are disposed of in some way (usually  
via death, naturally!), the characters can role-play out their escape.  
Encourage them to interact with Wendy and even the Walkers.  
Wendy will happily go back with the characters, but the Walkers  
decline, stating that they don’t belong to that world; they choose to  
stay in the Vault. 

The Characters Escape 
If the characters manage to get out of the Vault without slaying  
William and (or) Jimmy, let them decide what to do. Should they  
alert the authorities or simply let sleeping dogs lie. You could do an  
epilogue that starts six months later, wherein the one or more of the  
survivors are going about their mundane lives… only to have Jimmy  
(or William, if Jimmy is dead) attack. Roll credits! 

                                                                                                      111. 

----------------------- Page 112-----------------------

                                     THE SUPPORTING CAST 
                                     Tertiary Characters 
                                     Here are the stats for tertiary characters that appear in this ﬂ ick. 

                                     Chuck Mulligrew – “Tough Jock” 
                                     Chuck is a big, strong running back at the local high school. He  
                                     gets all the girls, but it’s not because of his IQ. Chuck isn’t dumb  
                                     by any stretch of the imagination; he’s just not the sharpest knife in  
                                     the drawer. This usually manifests itself when he mispronounces big  
                                     words and screws up common expressions. 

                                     Brawn: Good (Positive:  “Big Muscles”) 
                                     Finesse: Normal  (Positive:  “Running”) 
                                     Brains: Normal (Negative:  “A Bit Slow on the Uptake”) 
                                     Spirit: Normal  
                                         Items: None 

                                     Betty Bradford – “Robotically Obedient Wife” 
                                     Betty is a beautiful woman in her late forties, but that’s certainly  
                                     her most interesting quality. She has virtually no personality, acting  
                                     very robotic at all times. She is loyal to her husband, William, and  
                                     sees nothing wrong with his actions. If you’ve watched the original  
                                     version of “The Stepford Wives”, you’ll get a good handle on how to  
                                     portray her.  

                                     Brawn: Poor (Positive:  “Big Muscles”) 
                                     Finesse: Normal   
                                     Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Knows About Housekeeping”) 
                                     Spirit: Poor (Positive:  “Pretty”; Negative:  “Absolutely No Will of  
                                     her Own”) 
                                         Items: None 

                                     Wendy – “Captive Teen” 
                                     Wendy was captured by Jimmy a year ago and was forced to be a  
                                     part of the Bradford family. This red-haired girl once had a great deal  
                                     of spunkiness, but much of that has been beaten out of her. She is  
                                     made to wear clothes that look far younger than she actually is.   

                                     Brawn: Normal (Negative:  “Doesn’t Take Pain Well”) 
                                     Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Fast Reﬂ exes”) 
                                     Brains: Normal  
                                     Spirit: Normal  
                                         Items: None 

                                     Jacob Walker – “Grizzled Old Scientist” 
                                     At 50 years old, life has taken a grave toll on Jacob. His health  
                                     started failing him about ten years ago and now he can hardly  
                                     walk without a cane. He was actually one of the two people who  
                                     designed the Vault (the other being Paul Billington), using his  

112. 

----------------------- Page 113-----------------------

scientific skills to ensure that all the bases were covered.   

Brawn: Poor  
Finesse: Poor (Negative:  “Can Barely Walk”) 
Brains: Good (Positive:  “Scientiﬁ c Mind”,  “Knows the Vault’s  
Layout”) 
Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Never Gives Up”) 
    Items: Walking Cane 

Peggy Walker – “Rugged Young Lady” 
Peggy has never been afraid of anything, except the thought of losing  
her father. This has been especially true since her mother and sister  
were killed by William years ago. She’s a hardened individual now,  
who has wanted to kill William and Jimmy for a long time now. Her  
father, though, refuses to let her do it, claiming that once she kills  
someone, she’ll never be the same.   

Brawn: Normal  
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Shooting”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Strategy”) 
Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Determined”) 
    Items: Shotgun, Hunting Knife 

Killers 
Here are the stats for the killers that appear in this ﬂ ick. 

William Bradford – “Vile Head of the Household” 
William tries to always maintain the illusion of being an upstanding,  
respectable citizen, but in truth, he’s a cold-blooded murderer.  

Components: Normal Person, Tidy, Was Always Such A Nice  
Person 
Damage Threshold: 3 

Jimmy Bradford/Billington – “Mistreated Brute” 
Once the Billingtons were slain, Jimmy has done everything he can  
to gain William’s approval. He’s a very large man, standing 6’8”  
and weighing 300 pounds. His face was once handsome, but thanks  
to the abuse suffered at the hands of William, it is very scarred and  
hideous. He wears tattered clothes and has long, unkempt hair. He  
speaks fi ne, but prefers not to say anything when on the hunt for  
prey.   

Components: Fearful Visage (scarred face), Hard to Kill,  
Mysterious Disappearance, Superhuman Strength (he’s just  
freakishly strong) 

Damage Threshold: 4 
The Slasher Flick character creation rules may be fast and easy, The  

                                                                                                       113. 

----------------------- Page 114-----------------------

                                         APPENDIX: 
                                CHARACTER TEMPLATES 

          The Slasher FlickSlasher FlickSlasher FlickSlasher Flick character creation rules may be fast and easy, but it’s not always convenient  character creation rules may be fast and easy, but it’s not always convenient  character creation rules may be fast and easy, but it’s not always convenient  
          to mess with it before playing a ﬂ ick. Perhaps time is short or maybe everyone wants to just  
          dive into the game right away. That’s where character templates come in handy.  

          WHAT YOU’LL FIND HERE 
          Presented within these pages is a collection of pre-generated characters that can be selected  
          by the players in lieu of going through the character creation process. All players have to do  
          is pick their characters (in turn, of course; we don’t need any riots) and carry out Step Eight  
          of the character creation rules, which includes naming the character, establishing ties to other  
          characters and jotting down some tidbits. 

          The character write-ups represent secondary characters. Should you wish to take one as a  
          primary character, though, you’re fully accommodated. Each write-up has a section called,  
          appropriately enough, “Primary Character”. Just make the modifi cations listed in that section  
          and you’ve got yourself a primary character. 

          TERTIARY CHARACTERS 
          If you think that we’re leaving the Director out in the cold with this appendix, you’re dead  
          wrong (pun most likely intended). Any of the characters found in this section can be pressed  
          into service as tertiary characters (the secondary character version is used). Directors will  
          never be forced to create yet another crazy old man or backwoods sheriff again – they’re all  
          right here! 

          MAKING CHANGES 
          You can make alterations to any character you select as long as you have the Director’s  
          permission. This is especially useful if the characters are supposed to be of the same ilk  
          (a biker gang, a band, a group of archaeologists, etc.), allowing you to maintain the theme  
          without having identical characters. 

          To keep everything simple, here are a few ways to tweak a pre-generated character:  

114. 

----------------------- Page 115-----------------------

Rename the Stereotype 
This is the easiest change to make and shouldn’t be restricted by the Director. As long as the  
new name fi ts what the character does, it should all work out well. 

Change Gender 
The pre-generated characters assume a specifi c gender. That having been said, you can easily  
change the character’s gender. This often requires a slight renaming of the stereotype (e.g.,  
“Jealous Boyfriend” would become “Jealous Girlfriend”). 

Swap Stat Ratings 
You can simply swap two stat ratings. For example, if your character has Good Brawn and  
Normal Brains, you could swap the ratings, giving him Normal Brawn and Good Brains.   

Replace Qualities 
You can replace a quality with another quality of your choice. The new one must be the same  
type as the original. That is, you can’t replace a negative quality with a positive quality, or  
vice versa. You shouldn’t feel obligated to make the new quality be linked to the same stat as  
the original quality.  

Change Special Ability 
If the character is a primary character that has a special ability, you can choose another special  
ability instead. 

                                                                                                115. 

----------------------- Page 116-----------------------

         Air-Headed Debutante 
          “Diamonds are a girl’s best friend… but credit cards come in a close second.” 

          This pampered prima donna is all about making her debut into high-society. She wants  
         to be accepted by those of a higher social standing and she’ll do anything to achieve that  
          goal. Meanwhile, she looks down on those who are her societal “inferiors”. Despite all her  
          advantages she has been given during her life, nothing can take away the fact that she’s  
          astonishingly bird-brained, which leads to her making a fool of herself quite often.  

         Brawn: Normal  
         Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Graceful”)  
         Brains: Poor  (Negative:  “Unperceptive”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Wealthy”, “Attractive”) 

         Items: Purse, make-up, fancy jewelry, credit cards (platinum, of course)  

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •  Increase Brawn to Good 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Never Gives Up” 
              •  Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

         Annoying Prankster 
          “C’mon, guys, it was just a joke. I didn’t mean to…” 

         Life isn’t to be taken seriously. Or at least that’s how this individual looks at the world.  
         Everything’s a big joke to him. He has no concept of tact and can’t seem to get it through  
         his thick skull that people don’t enjoy having practical jokes played on them so often. Even  
         in the most inappropriate situations, he’s quick to pull off a prank. This obviously leads to  
          others becoming frustrated and even angry with him. Beneath it all, he’s highly insecure and is  
          attempting to make people like him (even though his antics have the opposite effect).  

         Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Lucky Attack”) 
         Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Hiding”)  
         Brains: Normal  (Positive:  “Prankcraft”; Negative:  “Clueless”) 
          Spirit: Poor (Positive:  “Puppy Dog Eyes”) 

         Items: Latex make-up kit, prop weapons, fake blood, whoopee cushion, monster masks  

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •  Increase Spirit to Normal 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Run Like Hell” 
              •  Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

116. 

----------------------- Page 117-----------------------

Average Teenaged Boy 
“You’re being silly. There’s nothing weird going on here.”  

This character never fi t neatly into a particular stereotype or clique. He’s just your normal  
everyday kind of teenager trying to navigate the pitfall-laden minefi eld that is high school.     

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Knows How to Handle Himself”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Sharp Mind”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Handsome”; Negative:  “Acts Impulsively”) 

Items: Wallet, comb, condoms  

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brains to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Athletic” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

Average Teenaged Girl 
“There’s gonna be a big party at the lake tonight. Wanna come?”  

She’s not a preppie, nor is she a geek, a jock or a stoner. This character’s simply the typical  
high school student looking to have some fun whenever the opportunity presents itself.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Practically Helpless in a Fight”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Nimble”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Gets Gut Feelings”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Pretty”) 

Items: Purse, cell phone, make-up  

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Finesse to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Skedaddling” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

Awkward Nerd 
“It’s my opinion that every episode of Star Trek was based on Native American folklore. To  
one degree or another.”  

Learning social grace would take time away from more important activities like programming  
computers, studying science, watching old Battlestar Galactica episodes and taping his glasses  
together... and that would be unacceptable. Okay, so this is an exaggeration, but not by a lot.  
This character doesn’t get out much, preferring to partake in numerous solitary, geek-based  

                                                                                                 117. 

----------------------- Page 118-----------------------

          activities. He is uncomfortable in social  
          situations and tends to fumble with his  
         words when speaking about anything  
         that’s outside of his comfort zone. 

         Brawn: Poor  
         Finesse: Normal  
         Brains: Good (Positive:  “Random  
         Knowledge”,  “Computers”, “Geek  
          TV/Movies”,  “Analyze Information”)  
          Spirit: Poor (Negative:  “Socially  
         Inept”) 

         Items: Sci-fi  magazine, calculator,  
          ink pen, notepad, laptop computer  

         Primary Character: If chosen  
          as a primary character, make the  
          following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Normal 
              •   Add the following positive  
                  quality to Finesse:  “Squirmy” 
              •   Add the following special  
                  ability: Stupid Action 

          Badass Gangsta 
          “Ain’t nothin’ out in those woods that’s gonna scare ME, know what I’m sayin’?”  

          The streets have a way of making a person hard, which explains why this character isn’t afraid  
          of anything. He may not be the most articulate person in the world, but he knows how to get  
         business done… by any means necessary. He’s the kind of guy who people rely on when  
         things get tough, which is fi ne by him. While he looks out primarily for Numero Uno, it’s not  
         unheard of for him to display a surprising amount of leadership skills.    

         Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Street Fighting”) 
         Finesse: Normal  
         Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Common Sense”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Scared of Nothing”; Negative:  “Impatient”) 

         Items: Switchblade knife 

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brawn to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Unlikely Leadership” 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 

118. 

----------------------- Page 119-----------------------

Barroom Brawler 
“Let’s take this to the parking lot!” 

Big, stupid, and drunk... fabulous combination. That is exactly what this guy is. He goes to  
bars constantly, getting drunk and making trouble. What he lacks in brains, he makes up for in  
brawn. Going head to head with a guy like this is possibly a bad idea. 

Brawn: Good (Positive:  “Brawler”) 
Finesse: Good  (Positive:  “Athletic”) 
Brains: Poor  (Negative: “Drunk”) 
Spirit: Poor  (Positive:  “Too Drunk to Care”) 

Items: Brass knuckles, wallet chain, cigarettes, lighter 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments. 
    •   Increase Spirit to Normal 
    •   Add the following Positive Quality to Brawn: Tough as Nails 
    •   Add the following special ability: Back for More 

Brash Punk Rocker 
“Fuck the rules, man! Fuck ‘em!” 

It’s all about loud music and anarchy! This character detests authority and looks for any  
opportunity to defy it, even if it risks getting him into major trouble. His reactionary nature  
ensures that he acts fi rst and thinks later. Sometimes, he doesn’t even think later. In short, he’s  
the type of guy mothers warn their daughters about. It’s not that he’s necessarily a bad guy  
or anything; it’s just that his natural inclination is to buck the system, which unsettles more  
conservative types.      

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Scrappy As Hell”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal  (Positive:  “Resourceful”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Stupidly Brave”; Negative:  “Off-Putting Personality”) 

Items: Jam-Box, spiked wristbands, studded collar, safety pins 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brawn to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Wiry Muscles” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

                                                                                                    119. 

----------------------- Page 120-----------------------

          Capable Athlete 
          “Stay behind me. I’ll handle this sicko myself!” 

          This professional or amateur athlete (your choice) relies on a healthy body and sound mind to  
          compete in physical sports. He’s naturally a go-getter with a “can do” attitude, which has also  
          contributed to his success in sports. To top off the whole package, he’s about as handsome as  
          can be, with a knack for turning the heads of those who would be attracted to his type.  

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Healthy Body”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Athletic”)  
          Brains: Normal (Negative:  “Somewhat Oblivious”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Strong Mind”) 

          Items: Dumbells, ankle weights, workout clothes, fi tness/sports magazine, protein shakes 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brawn to Good 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Handsome” 
              •   Increase Finesse to Good 

          Caring Doctor 
          “It’s going to be okay. I won’t let you die.”  

          When this character took the Hippocratic oath, she took it to heart and has never deviated  
          from it since. Whether at the hospital or out in the world, she always feels compelled to help  
          those in need of medical attention. In her personal life, she’s equally concerned with the  
          welfare of others, which has made keeping a love life together damn near impossible. While  
          she does long for a meaningful relationship, she has come to accept that her lot in life involves  
          saving lives. And if the right person comes along, who knows? Maybe she’ll be able to juggle  
          it all and live a more well-rounded life.  

          Brawn: Poor  
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Steady Hands”)  
          Brains: Good (Positive:  “Doctor”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Indifferent Toward Gore”; Negative:  “Can’t Easily Refuse the  
          Wounded”) 

          Items: Doctor’s bag fi lled with medical supplies  

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Keenly Aware” 
              •  Add the following special ability: Speedy Recovery 

120. 

----------------------- Page 121-----------------------

Charismatic Actor 
“So Angelina Jolie comes up to me and kisses me right on the lips…”    

This character exudes presence; when he’s on the scene, you know he’s there! And while one  
can’t really say that he’s a bad person, it’s fairly easy to tell that he’s quite full of himself.  
He likes to regale anyone willing to listen with tales of his exploits in Tinsel Town; about  
how he gave Robert Di Nero acting advice, about how he had a romantic encounter with  
Neve Campbell, about how he was offered the lead role in a remake of Gone with the Wind  
but turned it down, or about anything else that he can come up with to make himself seem  
important. But he gets away with it because he’s charming, witty and oh-so-damn pretty. 

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Toned Muscles”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal  
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Charismatic”,  “Good Looking”; Negative:  “Cowardly”) 

Items: Promotional photos (for autographs, of course), hairbrush, DVDs of his fi lm  
appearances, sharpie  

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Does His Own Stunts” 
    •   Increase Finesse to Good 

Chaste Girl-Next-Door 
“I don’t do that kind of thing, so don’t  
even try it, pal.”  

This character has a good head on  
her shoulders. She knows what heavy  
petting can lead to, so she just avoids  
it altogether, letting her wilder friends  
indulge themselves in fornication while  
she takes the more responsible route. She  
has defi nite plans for the future and studies  
hard to ensure that they become a reality.  

Brawn: Normal (Negative:  “Dainty  
Physique”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Level- 
Headed”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Has No  
Trouble Saying ‘No’”,  “Endearing  
Personality”) 

                                                                                                       121. 

----------------------- Page 122-----------------------

          Items: Crucifi x necklace, pocket Bible 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Fleeing Danger” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Wholesome 

          Clueless Deputy 
          “Hockey mask or no hockey mask, you’re coming with…*gurk*!”  

          There’s a good reason this character has never been promoted to the rank of sheriff. Actually,  
          there are several good reasons. Chief among them is the fact that he’s a discombobulated  
          mess. While it’s true that he tries hard to be a good lawman – some might say he tries too hard  
          – he just can’t seem to pull it together and do anything right. As such, the sheriff has relegated  
          him to performing menial tasks such as running off kids from the local graveyard, keeping an  
          eye on his boss’ teenage daughter, doling out parking tickets and so forth.    

          Brawn: Normal   
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Running”; Negative:  “Butterﬁ ngers”) 
          Brains: Poor (Positive:  “Knowledge of Police Procedures”) 
          Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Stubbornly Determined”) 

          Items: Pistol, ammo, handcuffs, nightstick, cool shades, walkie-talkie, squad car  

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Find Hiding Spot” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

          Cold-Blooded Mobster 
          “Better watch out, pal, or you’ll end up with new shoes. Concrete ones.” 

          This character is nobody to mess with and he’s not afraid to let that be known when necessary.  
          Still, he isn’t a braggart and prefers to do his talking with actions rather than words. His rather  
          quiet but menacing demeanor unnerves people, as it’s diffi cult to tell what’s going through his  
          vicious and calculating mind. For all they know, he could be deciding whether or not to rub  
          them out. And, given his callous nature, he may be doing exactly that. 

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Tough Customer”)  
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Pluggin’ People With Guns”) 
          Brains: Normal (Negative:  “Easy to Outwit”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Intimidate”) 

          Items: Pistol, ammo, brass knuckles, loaded wallet  

122. 

----------------------- Page 123-----------------------

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brawn to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “A Lotta Nerve” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Steel Yourself 

Cool Rebel 
“Nobody tells me what to do, especially a piss ant like you.” 

This character rebels against any form of authority, not because she’s an anarchist, but  
because she’s just too damn cool to abide by a bunch of rules. She’s the classic bad girl in the  
truest sense – a rebel without a cause. She smokes, she drinks, she raises hell… and she’ll  
defy anyone who tries to stop her. She also refuses to be tamed by anyone, though that doesn’t  
stop people from trying. That’s part of her allure, after all.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Fisticuffs”)  
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Good Reﬂ exes”) 
Brains: Normal  
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Willpower”; Negative:  “Lacking in Social Grace”) 

Items: Smokes, Zippo lighter, ﬂ ask of whiskey, attitude shades 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “High Endurance” 
    •   Add the following special ability:  
        Adrenaline Boost 

Country Lawman 
“I’m the law ‘round these here parts.” 

Looking and acting like he just walked  
off the set of Smokey and the Bandit,  
this backwoods police offi cer slings his  
authority around every chance he gets.  
His favorite pastime seems to be hassling  
teenagers and young adults in an effort  
to keep them from having a good time.  
He’s also disturbingly fond of spouting off  
one country colloquialism after another;  
usually ones that make him sound tough or  
important (“If I catch you kids drinkin’ out  
here, I’ll have your tits in a wringer like  
Ol’ Lady Jenkins’ dirty clothes on laundry  
day!”).   

                                                                                                     123. 

----------------------- Page 124-----------------------

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Stout”; Negative:  “Out of Shape”)   
          Finesse: Poor (Positive:  “Shooting”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Somethin’ Ain’t Right Around Here”)  
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Tough Talking”) 

          Items: Pistol, ammo, handcuffs, nightstick, cool shades, walkie-talkie, squad car 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Driving” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

          Courageous Tomboy 
          “Who’s up for some arm wrestling?” 

          This character is a rough and tumble kind of gal. She would rather lift weights than do her  
          nails, she doesn’t care one bit about unicorns or hearts and she would rather die than wear  
          high heels. She acts a lot like one of the guys, despite the fact that most of the guys in the  
          group fi nd her highly desirable. This fact makes many of the females jealous, leading to  
          a fair amount of cattiness toward her (“I don’t get what they see in her. She’s obviously a  
          bull dyke!”). The truth is that she’s prettier than most other women, though she doesn’t do  
          anything with her self to enhance her looks; it’s her natural beauty that people fi nd attractive.  
          She either doesn’t notice the aforementioned cattiness or simply chooses to ignore it.  
          Appearance aside, this character is affable and outgoing, typically goofi ng around and telling  
          dirty jokes.  

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Quite the Fighter”)   
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Athletic”) 
          Brains: Normal  
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Brave”; Negative:  “Lacking in Etiquette”) 

          Items: Shades, pocket change, baseball cap (usually worn backward) 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brawn to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Deceptively Strong” 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Natural Beauty” 

          Crabby Farmer 
          “Get off mah land!” 

          Life has been tough out on this character’s farm. He’s experienced hardship, fought adversity  
          and narrowly escaped disaster more times than he cares to count… and it has severely taken  
          its toll on his personality. That’s right – he’s a crotchety, cantankerous old cuss who has very  
          little (if any) joy in his life. Maybe somewhere deep beneath the layers of grouchiness, there’s  

124. 

----------------------- Page 125-----------------------

a good-hearted human being, but if that’s the case, it would take a whole lot of digging to fi nd  
that person. As it stands, he’s just old and bitter.    

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Vigorous Old Coot”) 
Finesse: Poor (Positive:  “Aiming”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Knowledge of Farming”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Strong-Willed”; Negative:  “Quarrelsome”) 

Items: Shotgun, extra shotgun shells, pitchfork 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
     •   Increase Spirit to Good 
     •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Wilderness Survival” 
     •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

Crazy Old Loon 
“You’re doomed. You’re all doomed!” 

Everybody writes this character off because  
of his reputation for being nuttier than a  
pecan pie. This reputation is well deserved,  
due to the fact that he’s always pestering  
people about the world coming to an end  
or swearing that he saw a UFO last night  
over by Potter’s Creek. He even knows that  
people are going to die soon, so he tries to  
warn them… but they never listen. If only  
they would listen to him, they would still be  
alive.     

Brawn: Normal 
Finesse: Poor  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Local  
Folklore”,  “Knows the Lay of the Land”;  
Negative:  “Loony as Hell”) 
Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Determined to  
Save People’s Lives”) 

Items: Bicycle 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
     •   Increase Brawn to Normal  
     •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Notice Strange Going-On” 
     •   Add the following special ability: Overcome 

                                                                                                          125. 

----------------------- Page 126-----------------------

           Creepy Caretaker 
           “I wouldn’t go out there after dark if I were you.” 

           This character goes about his business, mopping, changing light bulbs, fi xing leaks or  
          whatever else needs done. But there’s just something unnerving about him. He gives people  
          unsettling glances as they pass by, stares at them from a distance and has the habit of being  
          places where one wouldn’t expect him to be. In short, he’s slightly menacing, which leads  
           folks to believe that he’s up to something sinister at any given time.  

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Stamina”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Negative:  “Moves Rather Slowly”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Knowledge of Work Area”) 
           Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Intimidating”) 

          Items: Broom, mop, dustpan, cart, spray cleaner, rags, trash bags 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
               •   Increase Brawn to Good 
               •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “No Detail Escapes Him” 
               •   Add the following special ability: Steel Yourself 

           Crusty Hermit 
           “Civilization doesn’t have anything I want in it.” 

          For whatever reason, this character has shut himself out of society, holing up in his own little  
          world. He manages to eke out a relatively comfortable existence by making due with the  
           limited resources he has at hand. It goes without saying that he isn’t fond of new people (or  
          any people, for that matter); he would rather just be left alone. To say he’s out of touch with  
                  st                                                            st 
          the 21   century would be the understatement of, well, the 21   century. He doesn’t trust “new- 
           fangled” technology, instead relying on more primitive equipment to get help him get by.     

          Brawn: Normal  
          Finesse: Poor (Positive:  “Good Aim”) 
          Brains: Good (Positive:  “Cunning”,  “Survival”; Negative:  “Out of Touch with the Modern  
           World”) 
           Spirit: Normal  

          Items: Antique riﬂ e, bullets, bear traps, survival kit, hunting knife  

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
               •   Increase Finesse to Normal 
               •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Headstrong” 
               •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful  

126. 

----------------------- Page 127-----------------------

Curious Archaeologist 
“Don’t you understand the historical signiﬁ cance of these ruins?” 

The past is the link to our future. Or at least that’s how this character views things. He makes  
his living by studying human cultures by recovering, documenting, analyzing, and interpreting  
material remains and environmental data, including architecture, artifacts and landscapes.  
This is, of course, a scientifi c defi nition of digging through old ruins or other sites in hopes of  
fi nding cool stuff from ages ago. The character is bookish and cerebral, often talking down to  
those who are not.  

Brawn: Poor (Negative:  “Weakling”)  
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Good (Positive:  “Archaeology”,  “History”,  “Noticing Details”)   
Spirit: Normal   

Items: Shovel, pick, trowel, soil sifter, analytical gear, measuring/weighing tools 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brawn to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Fit in Tight Spaces” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

Cynical Detective 
“Yeah, yeah, I’ve heard it all before,  
buddy.” 

Whether a police detective or a  
private detective, this character has  
a methodical mind, enabling her to  
piece together evidence in order to  
solve crimes. She’s been around the  
block, so to speak, and automatically  
distrusts people until such a time that  
they prove themselves to her in some  
way. She simply holds a low opinion  
of the human race and it takes quite a  
lot to dislodge that opinion. This isn’t  
to say that she’s a bad person. It’s just  
that she has seen just about every vile  
act mankind can belch out during her  
career, making her jaded as hell. 

Brawn: Normal   
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  
 “Marksmanship”) 

                                                                                                    127. 

----------------------- Page 128-----------------------

          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Astute”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Hardened Mind”; Negative:  “Overly Blunt”)  

          Items: Pistol, cigarettes, lighter 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brains to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Hand to Hand Combat” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful  

          Devoted Film Nut 
          “Going outside when you hear a noise is stupid. Haven’t you ever seen a horror movie?” 

          This character is obsessed with movies and often tries to apply his knowledge of them to  
         real life situations. Similarly, he can somehow liken any circumstance or event to one that  
         happened in a particular movie he’s seen a million times. As you can probably guess, he has  
         no life… or at least not one that doesn’t involve motion pictures in some capacity. Everything  
         he knows, he learned from the cinema, which is kind of sad when you think about it.   

          Brawn: Normal (Negative:  “Couch Potato”)   
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Flee”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Movie Trivia”,  “Movie Logic”) 
          Spirit: Normal  

          Items: Portable DVD Player, lots of DVDs 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brains to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Playing Dead” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Adrenaline Boost 

          Ditzy Chick 
          “I don’t get it.” 

          This character gets by on her voluptuous good looks and loveable personality. One thing’s for  
          sure: she doesn’t get by on her intelligence. She’s bubbly, cute and impossible to dislike. Just  
          don’t expect to have a conversation about philosophy with her (she thinks Plato is a sculpting  
          compound for children). People like to have her around because she knows how to party and  
         because, well, she’s easy on the eyes.   

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Shrug Off Effects of Alcohol”) 
          Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Nimble”) 
          Brains: Poor (Negative:  “Lack of Booksmarts”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Naïve Charm”) 

128. 

----------------------- Page 129-----------------------

Items: Bubblegum, make-up, hair products, curling iron, booze 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Sexy” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

Down-To-Earth Country Girl 
“Y’all ain’t been outside the city much, have ya?” 

If you merged the DNA of Daisy Duke and Ellie May Clampett, this character would be the  
result. She’s sweet, but has a strong side. She retains all the charm and gentility of an old- 
fashioned gal, and minds her manners. But she can also be strong-willed when necessary,  
protecting the family farm or property, milking the cows, driving a tractor or hunting for food.  
She may not look all that tough, but her looks are deceiving; just piss her off and see how  
quickly she fi ghts you!  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Scrappy”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Farm Work”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Down-Home Charm”; Negative:  “Unsophisticated”) 

Items: Small pet [your choice] 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Finesse to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Able-Bodied” 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Knowledge of the Boondocks” 

Drunken Lout 
“I’ll *hic* kick yer ass!”   

You’ve heard of drunken wisdom, right? Well, this character has plenty of it to share… or  
so he thinks. Always intoxicated, he’s loud, belligerent, opinionated, and always looks to  
instigate a fi ght. There’s no talking sense into him either. Good advice goes in one of his ears  
and out the other, making it impossible to reason with him. In short, he’s an ill-tempered,  
antagonistic jerk when he’s under the inﬂ uence. Unfortunately, that’s almost all the time. 

Brawn: Good (Positive:  “Rasslin’”,  “Strong”) 
Finesse: Poor (Negative:  “Perpetually Drunk”) 
Brains: Poor 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Tough Talk”) 

Items: Bottles of beer, ice chest, bottle opener 

                                                                                                   129. 

----------------------- Page 130-----------------------

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Hard To Scare” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

          Dumb Jock 
          “Wedgeford High Football! WOO!!”  

          Squeaking by his classes with low-Ds, the dumb jock lives to do one thing and one thing only:  
          play sports. And, hey, who can argue with his approach? He’s big, strong and good at what  
          he does; he’s just not going to do so well on Jeopardy. It’s a fair trade, at least as far as he’s  
          concerned.  

          Brawn: Good (Positive:  “Muscles Galore”) 
          Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Athletic”) 
          Brains: Poor (Negative:  “Unperceptive”) 
          Spirit: Poor (Positive:  “Hard To Intimidate”) 

          Items: Booze, football (or baseball, basketball, etc.) 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Normal 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Endurance” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Adrenaline Boost 

          Dutiful Mother 
          “I will not rest until my daughter is found!”  

          Being a parent is the most important aspect of this character’s life. Nearly everything she does  
          revolves around her offspring in one way or another, which makes her capable of going to any  
          lengths to ensure their safety. Like an animal protecting its young, the dutiful mother can be  
          deceptively dangerous.    

          Brawn: Poor (Positive:  “Defend Offspring”) 
          Finesse: Normal  
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Crafty”) 
          Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Never Gives Up”; Negative:  “Easily Duped By Youths”) 

          Items: Station wagon, purse, pepper spray 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Finesse to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Quick Reﬂ exes” 
              •   Increase Brawn to Normal 

130. 

----------------------- Page 131-----------------------

Easy-Going Singer 
“Hey, man, it’s all good. Just relax while I sing a tune.”  

This character has a deep affi nity for music. It ﬂ ows through her veins and inhabits her very  
soul. She carries her acoustic guitar wherever she goes, belting out songs of passion, inner- 
thought and personal experiences as the inspiration takes her. She could probably make a  
career of it, but that’s not what she’s about. To her, the music comes fi rst and she refuses to  
compromise it by succumbing to the needs of fi nancial gain. So instead, she sings and plays  
guitar as her creative outlet and for the enjoyment of those around her.    

Brawn: Poor (Negative:  “Not Much of a Fighter”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Creative”) 
Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Singing”,  “Calming Demeanor”) 

Items: Guitar, sticker-adorned guitar case, notebook with her song lyrics in it 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brawn to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Climbing” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

Elitist Preppie 
“What do you know? You’re just poor white trash… with an emphasis on ‘trash’.”  

“Pompous ass.” That’s a word that this character has grown accustomed to being called. But  
that’s okay. After all, most of the people who call him that are just jealous, underprivileged  
idiots. He grew up in an afﬂ uent family who believed strictly in the concept of social classes.  
This naturally rubbed off on him and he still carries it with him to this day, making him  
unpopular with those who aren’t his ‘equals’.  

Brawn: Normal  
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Intelligent”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Clean-Cut Good Looks”,  “Schemer”; Negative:  “Total Jerk”) 

Items: Grooming kit, sports car, hair comb  

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brains to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Able-Bodied” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

                                                                                                  131. 

----------------------- Page 132-----------------------

          Enigmatic Stranger 
          “I just mind my own business.”  

          Nobody knows where this character  
          comes from, nor do they know his  
          motivations. He’s a man of few  
          words, preferring to keep to himself.  
          This gives him a mysterious air  
          about him, though it’s not really  
          intentional. He has his own goals,  
          but he’s not likely to share them with  
          anyone unless they prove themselves  
          to be trustworthy. It’s true that he’s a  
          loner by nature, but he’s not opposed  
          to working with others should the  
          need arise.   

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Cunning  
          Fighter”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Spry”) 
          Brains: Normal  
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Gutsy”;  
          Negative:  “Overly Quiet”) 

          Items: Cool shades, trench coat,  
          hunting knife  

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brawn to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Quick Thinker” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

          Enthusiastic Youth 
          “Can I come along? Please? Can I?”  

          Youth has a way of manifesting itself as unbridled eagerness. Such is defi nitely the case with  
          this pre-teen. She idolizes one or more of the characters and is constantly seeking to tag along  
          with them everywhere they go, often making a pest of herself in the process. And if they deny  
          her, she’ll sneak around and come along anyway. Simply put, she doesn’t take “no” for an  
          answer.     

          Brawn: Poor  
          Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Youthful Agility”,  “Fits in Small Spaces”) 
          Brains: Normal (Negative:  “Acts Without Thinking”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Persistent”) 

132. 

----------------------- Page 133-----------------------

Items: Cell phone 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Noticing Scary Stuff” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Wholesome 

Flirtatious Stripper 
“C’mon, cutie, there’s no need to be so uptight.”  

Endlessly attractive, this character never has a problem getting the attention of those who  
fi nd women attractive. In fact, she has turned this ability into a career as an exotic dancer.  
She’s lusty, alluring and when she gives someone a come-hither look, only the most resilient  
souls can resist. But that’s the side of her that she presents to the world. Behind the pretenses,  
however, she’s a bit on the insecure side, using her sexuality as a shield for her self-doubt.  

Brawn: Poor (Positive:  “Took Self Defense Classes”) 
Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Nimble Body”) 
Brains: Normal  
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Drop-Dead Gorgeous”; Negative:  “Gets Flustered When Scared”) 

Items: Purse, make-up, cell phone, condoms, extra pair of stockings 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brawn to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Getting Out of Tough Spots” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

Funky Soul Man 
“I don’t take no jive from nobody… especially some turkey wearin’ a stupid mask.”  

Some would say that this character stepped right out of the Blaxploitation fi lms of the 1970s,  
and they would only marginally be wrong. He’s one tough mutha and he has no problem  
taking the fi ght directly to whomever is causing him to lose his cool. But don’t get the wrong  
idea. He’s not some ill-tempered malcontent who’s always looking for trouble. The truth is  
that, while he isn’t afraid of confrontation, he’s actually more into being the quintessential  
smooth-talking ladies man. His deep Barry White-like voice, confi dent attitude and his good  
looks are enough to bear that out.   

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Bad Mo-fo”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Streetsmart”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Soulful Romeo”; Negative:  “Easily Distracted by the Ladies”) 

                                                                                                  133. 

----------------------- Page 134-----------------------

          Items: Hair pick, shades 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •  Increase Brawn to Good 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Strong Arms” 
              •  Increase Spirit to Good 

          Fun-Loving Musician 
          “Life’s a party, dude. Live it up!”  

          Playing music and having a good time are the two things that drive this character. He likes to  
          live life to the extreme, which also means that he indulges in nearly every excess imaginable:  
          sex, alcohol, drugs… you name it. If it’s illicit or immoral, he’s done it. And he’s always on  
          the lookout for more things to engage in. Life’s too short to worry about the consequences.  
          Even though having fun is high on his list of priorities, one thing (and only one thing) tops  
          it: playing his instrument in his band. For all his debauchery, he takes his musicianship very  
          seriously and refrains from drugs and alcohol before going on stage.   

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Resist Effects of Alcohol”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Play [insert instrument] ”) 
          Brains: Normal  
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Charismatic”; Negative:  “Bad Decision-Making Skills”) 

          Items: Musical instrument (your choice), case for instrument, musical paraphernalia (guitar  
          picks, drum sticks, or whatever else pertains to the chosen instrument), booze, drugs  

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •  Increase Finesse to Good 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Can Handle Himself in a Fight” 
              •  Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

          Gloomy Metal Head 
          “Death is the last great mystery. Embrace it.” 

          Disturbingly quiet, this character always seems to be watching your every move. With his long  
          hair covering much of his face, it’s almost impossible to read his facial expressions in order  
          to get a clue about what he’s thinking. His visage is enough to scare most people off, what  
          with his death metal t-shirts, pentagram necklace and evil-looking tattoos. His appearance,  
          however, is rather deceiving. While it’s true that the character is obsessed with all things  
          morbid and macabre, he’s far from evil. If befriended, he’s extremely loyal and isn’t afraid to  
          take a stand when necessary.   

          Brawn: Normal  
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Quiet”; Negative:  “Slow and Deliberate”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Watchful”)  

134. 

----------------------- Page 135-----------------------

Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Unafraid of  
Death”) 

Items: MP3 player (loaded with death  
& black metal songs), pentagram  
necklace 

Primary Character: If chosen as a  
primary character, make the following  
adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Good 
    •   Add the following positive  
        quality to Brains:  “Knowledge  
        of Serial Killers” 
    •   Increase Brains to Good 

Gnarly Surfer 
“All I need are some tasty waves, a  
cool buzz and I’m ﬁ ne.” 

Some may call this character a beach  
bum, but that’s okay. He doesn’t let it  
get to him too much. He’s been called  
worse. In truth, that name is a relatively  
accurate summation of who he is. Whenever possible, he dwells on the beach, toking on  
doobies and riding out the best waves that roar through the area. Having a job would just  
inhibit this lifestyle, which explains why he has never bothered with obtaining one. If he  
could score work as a shaper or lifeguard, he might take a shot at it, but other than that, he’s  
perfectly content with being jobless.    

Brawn: Normal  
Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Surﬁ ng”,  “Great Balance”) 
Brains: Normal (Negative:  “Brain-Fried”) 
Spirit: Poor (Positive:  “Too Stoned To Be Scared”) 

Items: Surfboard, sunscreen, sunglasses, bag of pot, beach towel, bong 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Good Cardiovascular Conditioning” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

                                                                                                  135. 

----------------------- Page 136-----------------------

          Greasy Diner Cook 
          “Who do I look like? Chef Boyardee?”  

          This character makes food. Not necessarily good food, but what do you expect from the grub  
          at a greasy-spoon diner? How he got the job, though, is anybody’s guess. He’s not known for  
          his hygiene, nor does he exude charm. He’s kind of grumpy and more than a little smelly, but  
          for some reason, he’s managed to keep his job for quite some time.       

          Brawn: Good (Positive:  “Blubbery Resilience”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Short-Order Cook”) 
          Brains: Normal  
          Spirit: Poor (Positive:  “Stubborn as a Mule”; Negative:  “Gross and Gruff”) 

          Items: Spatula, iron skillet, cook’s hat 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •  Increase Spirit to Normal 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Surprisingly Observant” 
              •  Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

          Grizzled Veteran 
          “Look, kid, there’s nothin’ out in those  
          woods that’s as scary as what I saw back in  
          ‘Nam.” 

          The war hardened this seasoned soldier  
          to the point of making him fearless.  
          He experienced horrors beyond the  
          comprehension of most civilians, yet he  
          takes it all in stride… for the most part. He  
          suffers from occasional ﬂ ashbacks, causing  
          him to blur the past and present together.  
          Luckily, this doesn’t happen often, but it  
          proves to be debilitating when it does. Aside  
          from this psychological glitch, the character  
          is a good person to have on your side when  
          things get hairy. He’s a cunning combatant  
          who knows his way around any wilderness  
          setting imaginable and he fears nothing. 

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Hand to Hand  
         Fighter”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Good Shot”) 
          Brains: Normal  
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Fearless”; Negative:  “Suffers Flashbacks”) 

136. 

----------------------- Page 137-----------------------

Items: Riﬂ e, ammunition, bandana, boot knife, compass 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •    Increase Brawn to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Use Environment to His Advantage” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Steel Yourself 

Grubby Grease Monkey 
“Let me take a look under the hood and see what the problem is.” 

There’s not an automotive problem in existence that this character can’t fi x, given the right  
tools and parts. It’s the challenge of repairing vehicles that gives him a reason to live. He  
thrives on it and has little interest in anything that doesn’t involve carburetors, starters, pistons  
and dual overhead cams. People prove too be too unpredictable and unreliable to fi gure out,  
but cars, on the other hand, are consistent and orthodox. So, although he doesn’t necessarily  
dislike people as a whole, he’s rather unsure of them. He relates to automobiles a hell of a lot  
better.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Brawler”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Steady Hands”) 
Brains: Normal  (Positive:  “Auto Mechanics”) 
Spirit: Normal (Negative:  “Has a Hard Time Dealing with People”) 

Items: Tools, tool belt, tool chest, pick-up truck 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •    Increase Brains to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Driving” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

Gruff Truck Driver 
“Breaker 1-9! Got your ears on? This is a Mayday! I repeat: this is a Mayday!” 

This character lives on the road in his eighteen-wheeler, perpetually dropping off and picking  
up loads. It has become a way of life that he is accustomed to. In fact, staying in one place  
for too long sounds mostly like a prison sentence to him. Unfortunately, he gets most of his  
energy from a constant barrage of coffee and the general lack of sleep makes him grumpy or,  
at the very least, irritable.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Stout”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Driving”) 
Brains: Normal   
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Strong Willed”; Negative:  “Grouchy”) 

Items: Eighteen-wheeler, “CAT Diesel Power” cap, thermos with coffee 

                                                                                                        137. 

----------------------- Page 138-----------------------

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brawn to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Great Sense of Direction” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Overcome 

          Half-Crazy Survivalist 
          “When the bombs drop, I’ll be good and ready for it – me and my stuffed Chihuahua,  
          Chico.” 

          This character is convinced that the end of the world is just around the corner, and he’s  
          more than prepared for it. He has a bomb shelter, ten years worth of canned foods and a ton  
          of survival gear. Did we mention his gun collection? He may not be completely crazy, but  
          he’s not completely sane either. It’s safe to say that he’s somewhere in between… and he’s  
          probably a little closer to crazy.  

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Rugged”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Marksman”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Wilderness Survival”; Negative:  “Not Playing with a Full Deck”) 
          Spirit: Normal  

          Items: Riﬂ es, ammunition galore, survival knife, camping gear, fi rst aid kit 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brawn to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Eyes Like an Eagle” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

          Handicapped Nice Guy 
          “I’ll just slow you down. Go on without me. Run!”  

          He may not have the use of his legs, but it has never held him back from living life to the  
          fullest. He has an upbeat attitude about his condition and doesn’t let it get him down. Some  
          folks have called him an inspiration, but he doesn’t see it that way. To him, he’s just a normal  
          guy who tries to make the most of the tough hand he has been dealt. His optimistic personality  
          has won him many friends over the years. He would gladly give his life to protect any of  
          them. 

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Powerful Arms”) 
          Finesse: Poor (Positive:  “Good Hand-Eye Coordination”; Negative:  “Can’t Walk”) 
          Brains: Normal  
          Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Magnetic Personality”) 

          Items: Wheelchair 

138. 

----------------------- Page 139-----------------------

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
     •   Increase Brawn to Good 
     •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Fine Eye for Detail” 
     •   Add the following special ability: Adrenaline Boost 

Handsome Loverboy 
 “Let’s not beat around the bush. I want you, and you want me. It’s destiny.”  

This character is one of the beautiful people. That is, he has striking good looks and he  
knows how to maximize them by dressing well and laying on the charm. This makes him the  
proverbial “chick magnet”, which suits him just fi ne. He’s not a particularly deep individual,  
but he’s not exactly stupid either; he merely thinks primarily in terms of aesthetics, holding  
beauty in remarkably high regard. He’s not hard to get along with, though, and he’s generally  
cool to just about everyone.   

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Chiseled Body”; Negative:  “Is a Lover, Not a Fighter”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Agile”) 
Brains: Normal  
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Striking Appearance”) 

Items: Grooming kit, nice clothes, mirror, hair products 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
     •   Increase Spirit to Good 
     •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Cheesy Pick-Up Lines” 
     •   Add the following special ability: Speedy Recovery  

Hard-Ass Coach 
 “Come on, ladies, drop and give me twenty  
push-ups!”  

 Somebody has to keep those damn kids in line  
and this character is more than happy to step up  
to the plate in that regard. He’s a fi rm believer  
in strict discipline, which doesn’t endear himself  
to his students. Still, they begrudgingly respect  
him… or at least fear him enough not to backtalk  
much. Even though he’s a whistle blowing  
loudmouth, he actually cares about “his kids”  
and genuinely wants to see them succeed in life.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Weight Lifter”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Athletics”) 
Brains: Normal  
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Will of Iron”;  
Negative:  “Abrupt Personality”) 

                                                                                                     139. 

----------------------- Page 140-----------------------

         Items: Whistle 

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
             •   Increase Finesse to Good 
             •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Nothing Gets Past Him” 
             •   Increase Brawn to Good 

         Hardened Criminal 
          “If life in the ‘big house’ has taught me anything, it’s that you can’t trust anybody.”  

         Life behind bars isn’t exactly a picnic. The things one faces are almost unfathomable to those  
         who have never been there. It’s dangerous, lonely, depressing and utterly confi ning. Prisoners  
         lose touch with the outside world, making it diffi cult to readjust once they step through those  
         iron gates to enter society once again. Some of them go straight, while others continue their  
          criminal ways. This character is making an effort to turn over a new leaf after his last stint up  
         the river, but it’s not always easy. Temptation is everywhere and scoring an easy buck is a hard  
         thing to turn down. Time will tell if he’ll ﬂ y right or end up back in the hoosegow.  

         Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Strong”) 
         Finesse: Normal  
         Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Criminal Mind”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Impossible to Intimidate”; Negative:  “Perpetual Screw-Up”) 

         Items: Shank, the clothes on his back 

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
             •   Increase Brawn to Good 
             •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Eyes in the Back of his Head” 
             •   Add the following special ability: Back for More  

         Hard-Working Laborer 
          “There’s nothing like earning a good day’s pay with a good day’s work.”  

         Hard blue-collar work builds character and makes one a better person. That’s how this  
          character looks at things. He feels that good things come around to those who keep their noses  
         to the grindstone. He’s honest, forthright and as common as common can be. He couldn’t tell  
          a salad fork from a meat fork, nor does he know which wine goes best with which dish, but  
         he can sure tell you which diner builds the best burger in town. With him, there are no false  
         pretenses. What you see is what you get and he wouldn’t have it any other way.  

         Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Worker’s Strength”) 
         Finesse: Normal  
         Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Common Sense”; Negative:  “Knows Nothing About High-Class  
          Things”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Personable”) 

140. 

----------------------- Page 141-----------------------

Items: Lunchbox, thermos, workman’s paraphernalia 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brawn to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Never Gives Up” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Let’s End This  

Hateful Jerk 
“Hey, moron, get out of my way!”  

This character doesn’t try to be an ass; he just is one. He thinks the world revolves around him  
and doesn’t suffer people who disagree. In his mind, he’s always right and everyone else is  
wrong. Very little – if anything – will change his mind on the matter. He’s boorish, selfi sh and  
mean-spirited. Why anyone hangs around with him is a mystery into itself.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Decent Fighter”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Astute”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Stubborn”; Negative:  “Abrasive Disposition”) 

Items: Cell phone 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Finesse to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Hide” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

High-Strung Film Director 
“Lights, camera, ac… oh come on! We’re burning daylight here! Positions!”  

Film direction is an art form that requires careful consideration of camera angles, pacing,  
positioning and overall quality. A director is diligent, calm and attentive to details. And then  
there’s this guy. The art of fi lmmaking is completely lost on him. He’s unceasingly stressed  
out, barking orders at anyone and everyone around. Furthermore, his approach to fi lm  
directing is completely utilitarian at best. Perhaps if he would calm down a bit and learn to  
make the most of his time, he would be able to improve his craft and become an effi cient  
director.    

Brawn: Normal  
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Fleeing”) 
Brains: Good (Positive:  “Perceptive”) 
Spirit: Poor (Positive:  “Commanding Voice”; Negative:  “Stressed Out”) 

Items: Cell phone 

                                                                                                        141. 

----------------------- Page 142-----------------------

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Normal 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Muscle:  “Scrappy When Frightened” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

          Hopeless Romantic 
          “She’s my soul mate.”  

          This character’s girlfriend has him  
          wrapped around her fi nger, not  
          necessarily because she has made an  
          effort to do so, but because he is so  
          infatuated with her that he would do  
          anything for her without a second  
          thought. He’s the exact opposite of the  
          typical macho guy who wants nothing  
          more than to get laid. He’s into the  
          sappy (sometimes corny) fantasy of  
          the classic fairy tale-like relationship  
          with the girl he deems his soul mate. 

          Brawn: Poor (Negative:  “Poor  
          Fighter”) 
          Finesse: Normal  
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  
          “Understands the Opposite Sex”) 
          Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Romantic  
          Nice Guy”,  “Brave When Protecting  
          His Soul Mate”) 

          Items: Box of chocolates, bouquet of ﬂ owers, hygiene supplies, breath-spray 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brawn to Normal 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Coordinated” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Adrenaline Boost 

          Indifferent City Ofﬁ cial 
          “That’s not my concern. I have other things to worry about. This is an election year, for  
          Christ’s sake.”  

          Politics is all consuming. Once you step into that arena, your priorities tend to shift… and  
          not necessarily for the better. Family, friends and the good of others often take a backseat to  
          impressing people and inﬂ uencing potential voters. And once you’re in offi ce, it gets even  
          worse. You’re constantly under a magnifying glass and re-election becomes a grave concern.  

142. 

----------------------- Page 143-----------------------

This pretty much describes this character’s life. She has lost touch with what’s important,  
thinking exclusively of her political career.    

Brawn: Poor (Negative:  “Poor Fighter”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Wily”,  “Well Educated”) 
Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Winning Friends and Inﬂ uencing People”) 

Items: Cell phone, campaign paraphernalia (buttons, ﬂ yers, signs, etc.) 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brains to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Hiding” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

Innocent Babysitter 
“Alright, kiddo, it’s time for bed.”  

She likes kids and the money’s not half bad, so babysitting is a rather ideal job for this  
character. Some babysitters take advantage of their employers by throwing parties, neglecting  
the children, having sex or doing drugs. That’s not how she does business. She’s responsible  
and takes her job seriously. Sure, she talks to her boyfriend on the phone and raids the fridge  
a bit while on duty, but she always puts the needs of the children before her own and will do  
whatever it takes to keep them safe, even in the face of terror.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Protecting Children”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Hiding”) 
Brains: Normal  
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Responsible Nature”; Negative:  “Naïve”) 

Items: Cell phone, purse, house keys 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Finesse to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Crafty Thinker” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Wholesome 

Intrepid Security Guard 
“This place is locked up tight. Nobody can get in here. Hey, what was that noise?”  

Call him a rent-a-cop all you like, but this character takes his job seriously, and he’s damn  
good at it. He’s not just a schmuck with a gun and a ﬂ ashlight; he’s a moderately trained  
guard with more courage than common sense. More importantly, he will gladly put his life on  
the line to help those in need of assistance. That’s why he hopes to join the police academy  
someday. As a police offi cer, he would have a better chance of actually making a difference.  
That’s his biggest aspiration. 

                                                                                                   143. 

----------------------- Page 144-----------------------

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Close Combat”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Shooting”) 
          Brains: Normal (Negative:  “Lack of Judgment”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Undaunted”) 

          Items: Pistol, ammunition, nightstick, cheap security badge  

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Stealth” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

          Intrusive Shrink 
          “This is a part of your treatment. Don’t you want to be cured of your… problems?”  

          Some psychiatrists want to help people. Others psychiatrists exploit their patients in order to  
          conduct unethical experiments. Guess which category this chump falls into. He has no interest  
          in benefi ting anyone but himself, nor does he care about doctor-patient confi dentiality. He has  
          some strange notions about psychology that extends far past the point where other doctors  
          turn back. He views himself as a daring and brilliant doctor destined to revolutionize the fi eld,  
          though he’s actually just an ass with a superiority complex.  

          Brawn: Poor (Positive:  “Fight Back When Cornered”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Beating Feet”) 
          Brains: Good (Positive:  “Psychiatrist”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Negative:  “Unlikable”) 

          Items: Notepad, ink pen, tape recorder, blank cassette tapes, laptop computer  

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brawn to Normal 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Hiding” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

          Jealous Girlfriend 
          “You lookin’ at my man, bitch?”  

          Possessive and clingy, this character latches onto her boyfriend and won’t let go, even  
          if he starts to resent her for it. Clearly, she has some issues. To hell with that: she has a  
          subscription. She’s snippy, arrogant and generally just an unpleasant bitch to be around, which  
          endears her to no one, except maybe her boyfriend… and even that’s debatable.   

          Brawn: Poor (Positive:  “Catﬁ ghting”) 
          Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Flexible”) 
          Brains: Normal 
          Spirit: Normal (Negative:  “Jealousy”) 

144. 

----------------------- Page 145-----------------------

Items: Things her boyfriend gave her (a ring, necklace, photos of him, etc.), cell phone  

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brawn to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Running” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

Kindly Oldster 
“You kids need to be careful traipsing around out in the woods.”   

He’s a loveable fellow who is well regarded by just about everyone who meets him. He’s a bit  
over talkative and rambles on a bit, but he’s lived a long life and has a lot of stories to share.  
This makes it hard to break away from a conversation with him unless you don’t mind being  
abrasive. He means well, though, which counts for a lot. While his best days may be well  
behind him, the old coot still has a sputter of “go” left in him.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Still Packs a Wallop”; Negative:  “A Bit Inﬁ rm”) 
Finesse: Poor  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Font of Knowledge”,  “Gut Feelings”) 
Spirit: Normal (Negative:  “Friendly”) 

Items: Walking cane, old keepsakes  

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brains to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Hard to Spook” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Steel Yourself 

Laid-Back Cameraman 
“I think I can get a good angle from up there.”  

Filming movies is more than a job for this character;  
it’s a way of life. He sees the world through the lens  
of a video camera (or any other similar device).  
He instinctively knows how to get the best shots to  
achieve whatever effect he’s going for, which is why  
he’s never without paying work. His personality is  
also a major factor in why fi lmmakers enjoy working  
with him. He’s mellow, methodical and never gets  
stressed out while working.  

Brawn: Normal (Negative:  “Too Mellow to Fight  
Well”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Squeeze Into Tight Spaces”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Fine Eye For Detail”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Cool-Headed”) 

                                                                                                  145. 

----------------------- Page 146-----------------------

         Items: Camera set-up, fi lm  

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
             •   Increase Brains to Good 
             •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Personable” 
             •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

         Lethargic Stoner 
          “Where’s the bud, man??” 

         Weed was put on this planet for his personal use. If there’s weed around, you can bet the  
         mortgage that he’s trying to smoke it. Because of this, he is... well, he just doesn’t care about  
         things like other people do. He hangs out with his friends, smokes, and has an all around good  
         time. 

         Brawn: Normal 
         Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Uncanny Agility”) 
         Brains: Poor (Positive:  “Full of Useless Knowledge”; Negative:  “Stoned”) 
         Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Doesen’t Give a Damn”) 

         Items: Quarter sack, lighter, rolling papers, pipe, cigarettes 

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
             •   Increase Brawn to Good 
             •   Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Tolerant to Pain” 
             •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

         Manipulative Bitch 
          “I’ll have him wrapped around my ﬁ nger before the night’s over.” 

         The mind game is this character’s area of expertise, and she is a master at it. While she  
         understands that her ravishing beauty is perhaps the greatest weapon in her arsenal, she  
         doesn’t merely rely on the one tool. Her cunning, after all, is her second best weapon, and she  
         brandishes it like a Wild West gunslinger would brandish his shooting irons. She may have a  
         redeeming feature buried deep down in her icy heart, but if so, nobody has seen it yet. In all  
         likelihood, they never will. 

         Brawn: Poor 
         Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Elegant Coordination”) 
         Brains: Normal  
          Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Devious Head Games”,  “Willful”; Negative:  “Detestable  
         Personality”) 

         Items: Cell phone, make-up, sexy lingerie 

146. 

----------------------- Page 147-----------------------

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brains to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Astute” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

Mindful Butler 
“I’m all too aware of the cliché… but in this case, the butler did not do it.” 

This character possesses a quiet dignity. His job is to serve his employers and he has no  
reservations about doing exactly that. It’s not a matter of subservience to him; it’s just a job,  
albeit a well-paying one. He knows his place and is comfortable with it. Outside of work, he’s  
much the same: reserved, poised and endlessly polite.  

Brawn: Poor (Negative:  “Feeble Strength”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Fine Motor Skills”) 
Brains: Good (Positive:  “Knowledgeable”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Mannered”) 

Items: Grooming kit, expensive pocket-watch 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Rapier-Like Wit” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

Mysterious Drifter 
“I’m just passing through.” 

Never really fi tting in anywhere and seldom letting grass grow under his feet, this character  
moves from place to place on his motorcycle. He doesn’t try to be mysterious; he’s just the  
quiet type who doesn’t feel the need to tell everyone his life story. People somehow equate  
that to him being mysterious.     

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Tough Customer”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Drive Motorcycle”; Negative:  “Slightly Slow Runner”) 
Brains: Normal  
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Courageous”) 

Items: Harley Davidson motorcycle, extra clothes, smokes, lighter 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brawn to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Good Reaction Speed” 
    •   Increase Spirit to Good 

                                                                                                  147. 

----------------------- Page 148-----------------------

         Naïve Hitchhiker  
          “Which way you heading?” 

         This character is traveling via the thumbway express. It’s not exactly the safest method of  
         travel, but it sure is the most exciting. As long as one takes proper precautions, the risk is  
         minimized. Unfortunately, she hasn’t taken any of the recommended precautions, making her  
         dreadfully prone to all the dangers of the open road. Hell, she’s not even packing a weapon.  
         She’s just young and pathetically naïve, not believing that people would do such awful things  
         to hitchhikers. That kind of stuff only happens in horror movies, right? Right?  

         Brawn: Normal  
         Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Screaming and Running”) 
         Brains: Poor (Positive:  “Perceptive”) 
         Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Sweet and Innocent Smile”, Negative:  “Easily Suckered”) 

         Items: Backpack, extra clothes, sleeping bag, hiking boots 

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
             •   Increase Brains to Normal 
             •   Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Lucky Attack” 
             •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

         New Age Spiritualist 
          “Your aura speaks volumes about you.” 

         Astrology, crystals, tarot cards, yoga, holistic healing methods and crummy harpsichord/ 
         chime music -- these things are at the center of this character’s overall belief system. She’s  
         perpetually relaxed (until the proverbial shit hits the fan) and likes to sound all-knowing,  
         looking for any opportunity to “open people’s eyes” to the path of spiritualism. This makes her  
         come across as pushy, annoying and pompous. In truth, her heart is in the right place.  

         Brawn: Normal  
         Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Hiding”; Negative:  “Too Lackadaisical to React Quickly”) 
         Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Knowledge of Spiritualism”) 
         Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Soulful”) 

         Items: Tacky clothing, Ouija board, crystals, tarot cards, books about spiritualism 

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
             •   Increase Spirit to Good 
             •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Convincing Rhetoric” 
             •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

148. 

----------------------- Page 149-----------------------

No-Nonsense Principal 
“Slackers!” 

Some school workers relate well to the  
students, befriending them while still  
maintaining a sense of authority. This guy’s  
not one of them. He’s the classic hard-nosed  
principal who is absolutely clueless about  
what kids actually need. He believes in strict  
discipline and refuses to mollycoddle his  
charges in any way, shape or form. In case it’s  
not obvious, he has no sense of humor.   

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Strong Left  
Hook”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Notices  
Everything”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Barking Orders  
at Others”; Negative:  “Lovely Demeanor…  
Not!”) 

Items: Wooden paddle, eye glasses 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brains to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Never Relents” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Back For More 

Nosy Journalist 
“This is a great scoop!” 

Life is just a series of stories and news features just waiting to be written… and this character  
is determined to snuff them out. She’s persistent to a fault and is as pushy as they come. She  
isn’t opposed to alienating or outright offending people, which is probably why she’s so damn  
good at her job. She’s been cursed at, pushed back and even attacked in the line of duty, but  
this does nothing to deter her from getting closer to the truth and asking the most probing  
questions possible.  

Brawn: Poor  
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Sneaking Around”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Nothing Gets Past Her”) 
Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Strong Personality”; Negative:  “Sometimes Offensive”) 

Items: Digital audio recorder, camera, video camera, fi lm, microphone, pepper spray 

                                                                                                149. 

----------------------- Page 150-----------------------

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brains to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Analyze the Situation” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful  

          Obsessed Scientist 
          “This proves my theory is correct.” 

          Having no personal life is just a small price this character pays for his quest – no, thirst – for  
          scientifi c knowledge. He has been unable to maintain any meaningful relationships of any  
          kind over the years due to the fact that all of his time is spent in the laboratory, testing theories  
          and devising chemical concoctions. He has no social skills to speak of, but he’s not hard to  
          get along with. And he’s a good guy to have backing you up when a scientifi c solution to a  
          problem is required.   

          Brawn: Normal  
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Steady Hands”) 
          Brains: Good (Positive:  “Scientiﬁ c Genius”,  “General Knowledge”) 
          Spirit: Poor (Negative:  “No Social Skills”) 

          Items: Vials of chemicals, calculator, books on various subjects 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Strong Willed” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

          Old Pervert 
          “Look at the bazoombas on that one. How, haw, haw!” 

          In horror movies, only one thing can possibly be creepier than the psycho killer: this guy! He’s  
          a whiskey-fi lled middle-aged deviant who gets his jollies by spying on half (or fully) naked  
          young ladies... and he doesn’t smell too good either. You may be wondering if the guy has  
          any intellectual or emotional depth, and that’s to be expected. Sadly, the answer is “absolutely  
          not”. He is what he is, and what he is is pretty pathetic.  

          Brawn: Good (Positive:  “Consume Tons of Whiskey”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Lurking Quietly”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Spying”) 
          Spirit: Poor (Negative:  “Odiferous”) 

          Items: Flask of whiskey, stubby cigar, binoculars, rolled-up nudie magazine 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Normal 

150. 

----------------------- Page 151-----------------------

    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Area Knowledge” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

Outgoing Party Animal 
“Partyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy!” 

Partying is a way of life for this character. He wanders from party to party, sucking up the  
suds like a sponge, all the while acting wild and crazy… all in the name of having a good  
time. He has an uncanny resistance to the effects of booze and he takes full advantage of it.  
Nobody actually knows what he’s like when sober because, well, he’s always either drunk or  
hung over.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Won’t Pass Out From Alcohol”,  “Stout”) 
Finesse: Normal (Negative:  “Inebriated Clumsiness”) 
Brains: Normal  
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Life of the Party”) 

Items: Bottles of beer, beer hat 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Drunken Wisdom” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

Overworked Nurse 
“Let’s check your vitals.” 

Long hours at the hospital ensure that this character is unceasingly worn out and she’s almost  
to the point of sheer exhaustion. She enjoys her job, but she’s growing weary of working so  
hard and long at a stretch. This understandably leaves her frazzled and stressed out. It’s a  
testament to her endurance that she hasn’t collapsed yet. Perhaps she’ll soon be given a break  
and can resume her personal life. 

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Physical Endurance”) 
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Nursing”; Negative:  “Too Tired to Think Fast”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Mental Endurance”) 

Items: Stethoscope, fi rst aid kit, needles  

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Coordinated Hands” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Overcome  

                                                                                                   151. 

----------------------- Page 152-----------------------

          Perky Cheerleader 
          “Gim’me an S! Gim’me an E! Gim’me an X! What’s that spell? No, seriously, what does  
          that spell?” 

          This character’s here to do two things: chew bubblegum and do cheers. And she’s all out of…  
          oh, nevermind; she seemingly has an infi nite supply of bubble gum. Her bubbly disposition  
          (pun mostly intended) makes her the perfect cheerleader. She’s cheerful (damn puns!),  
          charismatic and foxy, a fantastic combination. She’s not too brilliant, though, so unscrupulous  
          guys tend to manipulate her a lot. 

          Brawn: Normal  
          Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Astonishing Balance”,  “Acrobatic”) 
          Brains: Poor  
          Spirit: Normal (Positive: Attractive to the Nth Degree” ; Negative:  “Easily Duped”) 

          Items: Condoms, make-up, purse, cell phone (with tons of sparkly ﬂ air on it), a million packs  
          of bubble gum  

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Fast Runner” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

          Plain-Jane Girl 
          “Nobody’s ever going to want to make out with someone like me.” 

          It’s safe to say that this character’s not one of the so-called beautiful people. While she’s not  
          what one would call ugly, she doesn’t have guys (or girls) lined up around the block, waiting  
          to date her. Her hair is a bit stringy, she has freckles and she has no concept of fashion. Her  
          lack of attractiveness has damaged her self-esteem a great deal over the years, causing her to  
          become shy as a result. Perhaps if she took the time to fi x herself up, she would be a raving  
          beauty. Stranger things have happened.   

          Brawn: Normal  
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Remain Still”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Outwit”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Humble Personality”; Negative:  “Low Self-Esteem”) 

          Items: Cell phone, big purse full of mostly useless junk 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brains to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Fight Back” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

152. 

----------------------- Page 153-----------------------

Plucky Kid 
“I ain’t scared of nothin’.” 

People are disinclined to take 10 year olds  
seriously, even masked psycho killers. That  
works to this character’s advantage, as he  
is able to zip around practically unnoticed  
while brewing up some kind of plan.  
He’s quick minded, nervy and practically  
fearless. He also has unerring accuracy  
with his trusty slingshot, which has served  
him well in many tough circumstances. 

Brawn: Poor (Negative:  “Weak Arms”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Skilled  
Slingshot Marksman”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Plan-Making”) 
Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Lionhearted”) 

Items: Slingshot, pocket full of ball  
bearings, baseball cards 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Finesse to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Fit Into Small Places” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Wholesome  

Police Ofﬁ cer 
“Put that weapon down, nice and easy.” 

To this character, his badge means almost everything. While he certainly has a healthy social  
life, it all takes a backseat to his duty as an offi cer of the law. He’s hardly the by-the-book  
kind of hard-ass one might expect him to be. He’s a good judge of character and is always  
willing to give people a break if he feels they’re being straight with him. If they do him  
wrong, though, he’ll cut them no slack whatsoever.  

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Well-Trained Fighter”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Dead-Eye”) 
Brains: Normal  
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Courageous”; Negative:  “Sometimes Too Cautious”) 

Items: Pistol, riﬂ e, ammunition, kevlar vest, police car, handcuffs, nightstick  

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Finesse to Good 

                                                                                                   153. 

----------------------- Page 154-----------------------

               •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Tactical Thinker” 
               •   Add the following special ability: Back For More 

           Protective Camp Counselor 
           “I’ve got to go ﬁ nd the kids!” 

          Despite being a young adult, this  
           character has a strong sense of  
          responsibility and a knack for leadership  
           (especially when involved with youths).  
           She likes to do her fair share of partying,  
          but never at the expense of those she’s in  
           charge of. While her peers are engaging  
          in drug and alcohol abuse, she’s busy  
           checking on the campers. That’s always  
          her fi rst priority. 

          Brawn: Normal (Negative:  “Weakling”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Running”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Perceptive  
          of Anything Involving Youths”) 
           Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Brave”) 

          Items: Purse, cell phone 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a  
          primary character, make the following  
           adjustments: 
               •   Increase Brains to Good 
               •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Tricky” 
               •   Add the following special ability: Adrenaline Boost 

           Psychotic Nutjob 
           “Once you’ve killed a man, doin’ it again ain’t a problem.” 

           This guy’s not right in the head. He has killed before, but has either paid his debt to society or  
          has escaped from prison. It may be that he’s never been caught. Nobody knows for sure. It’s  
          plenty evident that he’s unhinged and would kill again should the urge come over him. When  
          bad things start to happen, he is frequently the one that people point their fi ngers at.  

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Up-Close Fighter”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Gets Around Efﬁ ciently”) 
          Brains: Normal  
           Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Determined”; Negative:  “Psychotic”) 

154. 

----------------------- Page 155-----------------------

Items: Knife 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •    Increase Brawn to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Streetsmart” 
    •    Increase Finesse to Good 

Quiet Basketcase 
“I’m not a nymphomaniac… I’m a compulsive liar.” 

This character prefers to stay in the background, saying nary a word until she gets to know  
the people she’s around. And when she does open her mouth, a random mix of truths and lies  
come out. It’s always diffi cult to tell what is true and what is false when it comes to her. This  
has caused her to become something of an outcast. She’s also prone to swiping things, so  
anyone around her should keep a close eye on their possessions.  

Brawn: Poor 
Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Stealing”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Observant”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Convincing Liar”; Negative:  “Headcase”) 

Items: Massive purse (for stashing her stolen items) 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •    Increase Brawn to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Sneaking Around” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

Rambunctious Redneck 
“Hell yeah! I’m always up for a ﬁ ght!” 

“Rowdy” is this character’s middle name. Well, not really, but it might as well be, given how  
much he enjoys getting into brawls. He’s from the “other side of the tracks”, where trailer  
parks and run-down beer joints outnumber houses with white picket fences and upscale  
nightclubs by a vast margin. In fact, there probably aren’t any of the latter two places in his  
neck of the woods. Who needs all that fancy stuff, anyway? This character would rather grab  
an ice chest full of cold ones, crank up some Skynyrd and raise some serious hell than do  
whatever it is the rich folks do with their time. 

Brawn: Good (Positive:  “Barroom Brawler”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Driving”) 
                                                    th 
Brains: Poor (Negative:  “Quit Schooling in 6  Grade”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Too Stubborn to Give Up”) 

                                                                                                        155. 

----------------------- Page 156-----------------------

          Items: Cooler full of beer, beat-up old pick-up truck 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brains to Normal 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Doesn’t Get Scared Much” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Let’s End This! 

          Rugged Outdoorsman 
          “There’s nothing like the great outdoors to restore the balance to a man’s life.” 

          To hell with the city and all its complexities and uncertainties! The wilderness is the place to  
          be. Out there, everything is natural; the way things are supposed to be. That’s exactly how this  
          character prefers it. He loves camping out in the middle of nowhere, surviving on whatever  
          he can hunt or fi sh for. He has become quite accustomed to how things are in the woods and  
          could survive there indefi nitely.  

          Brawn: Normal  
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Riﬂ e Shooting”,  “Hiding”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Wilderness Survival”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Negative:  “Dismissive of City Slickers”) 

          Items: Camouﬂ age clothes, deer riﬂ e, ammunition, buck knife, compass  

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Finesse to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Tracking” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

          Sarcastic Goth  
          “You’re not goth; you’re just a poseur.” 

          Dark and mysterious, this character is goth through and through. She wears white corpse  
          paint, wears pseudo-Victorian clothing, listens to death rock and industrial music, and has a  
          distinct vampiric look about her. She’s fascinated by graveyards, necroticism and anything that  
          has to do with death. As for her personality, she’s dramatically unapproachable, brandishing  
          her sarcastic wit like a weapon toward anyone who dares to get too close.   

          Brawn: Normal  
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Hide Via Black Clothes”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Knowledge of the Supernatural”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Unfazed by Death”; Negative:  “Off-Putting Demeanor”) 

          Items: Copy of “Interview with the Vampire”, Victorian baubles 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 

156. 

----------------------- Page 157-----------------------

    •   Increase Spirit to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Fast-Thinking” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Adrenaline Boost  

Sci-Fi/Horror Geek  
“I have 39 issues of Weird Tales. Wanna see them?” 

This character is a big dork, a fact that certainly hasn’t escaped the notice of his peers. His  
love of all things science fi ction and horror is quite extreme and borders on obsession. This  
prompts his pals to jokingly barrage him with nicknames such as “Darth”, “Spock”, “Mr.  
Lovecraft”, and so forth. He takes it with a wry smile, right before jumping right back into his  
novels, magazines and movies designed to invoke wonder, awe and terror.  

Brawn: Normal  
Finesse: Normal  
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Knowledge of Sci-Fi/Horror”,  “Respond to Horriﬁ c Situations”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Nerdy Resolve”; Negative:  “Socially Inept”) 

Items: Pulp magazines, sci-fi /horror novels 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brains to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Scurry Out of Harm’s Way” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck 

Self-Centered Prom Queen  
“I can get any guy in school to beg for a date with me.” 

They say that beauty is in the eye of the beholder. If so, then this character beholds her own  
beauty and touts it highly. She’s egocentric and snide, seldom taking the feelings of others  
into account. The only reason she’s so popular is because of her ravishing looks. It’s defi nitely  
not because of her charming personality.   

Brawn: Poor 
Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Graceful Movement”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Social Climber”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Gorgeous”; Negative:  “Self-Absorbed”) 

Items: Beauty supplies, cell phone, jewelry, often-used mirror 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Schemer” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

                                                                                                 157. 

----------------------- Page 158-----------------------

          Sexy Sorority Sister 
          “Why don’t you join Pi Eta Nu? You’d ﬁ t in perfectly.” 

          Being a sorority sister is a big deal to this character. It gives her a true sense of belonging that  
          she has always craved. Before going to college, she was never really a part of anything. But  
         that has all changed and she’s excessively happy about it. She goes to great effort in order  
         to help her sorority as well as her sisters. In truth, her sisters often take advantage of her  
          eagerness to please and the only reason they let her in was because she is vivaciously sexy and  
          could help attract the best looking frat boys to their parties.  

          Brawn: Poor  
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Flexible”,  “Fast Runner”) 
          Brains: Normal (Negative:  “Oblivious to People Using Her”) 
          Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Voluptuous Appearance”) 

          Items: Make-up, hair products, beer 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Finesse to Good 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Dazzling Personality” 
              •  Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

          Shallow Valley Girl 
          “Like, oh my god, gag me with a spoon!” 

          This character is a spoiled and materialistic upper-middle class girl. She’s promiscuous and  
          can be called hedonistic without stretching the imagination much. Shopping, social status  
          and physical appearance matters to her far more than intellectual development or personal  
          accomplishment. Rather than get to know people before making a judgment about them, she  
         bases her opinions on how they look. If you’re physically attractive, she will instantly like you  
          (unless there’s a jealousy issue)… but if you’re lacking in the looks department, you can fully  
          expect not only to be shunned by her, but also have unkind remarks thrown your way.   

          Brawn: Normal  
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Dexterous”) 
          Brains: Poor (Positive:  “Ditzy”) 
          Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Fetching Appearance”; Negative:  “Lacks Emotional Depth”) 

          Items: Make-up, tons of hairspray, loud accessories, funky shades, expensive cell phone 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Finesse to Good 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Took Self-Defense Classes” 
              •  Add the following special ability: Stupid Action 

158. 

----------------------- Page 159-----------------------

Shifty Thief 
“Hey, man, I don’t know how that watch  
got into my pocket.” 

There are thousands (perhaps millions) of  
ways to get what you want in this world.  
But there’s only one way that suits this  
character: he steals things. Whether the  
object is something he wants or not, he  
won’t hesitate to swipe it. If he wants it,  
he’ll keep it; otherwise, he’ll sell it for  
cold, hard cash. He comes across like a nice  
enough guy (if a bit on the shy side), though  
many people fi nd his mannerisms to be  
sneaky. They have no idea how close to the  
truth they are in their assessments.  

Brawn: Normal (Negative:  “Terrible  
Fighter”) 
Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Breaking and  
Entering”,  “Sleight of Hand”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Knowledge of  
Security Systems”) 
Spirit: Poor 

Items: Lock-picking tools, backpack full of stolen goods 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •    Increase Spirit to Normal 
    •    Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Fast-Talk” 
    •    Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

Shrewd Businessman 
“Mixing business with pleasure is a very, very dangerous proposition.” 

This character didn’t get to where he is by making stupid mistakes. When it comes to  
business, he’s savvy, discerning and absolutely calculating. He never makes a move without  
fi rst thinking it through in a thorough fashion. Everything he does is done with a good reason  
backing it up. He does have one weakness, though: beautiful women, especially the vexing  
seductress types. When he encounters such a woman, his normally calm manner dissolves into  
bumble-headedness.  

Brawn: Normal  
Finesse: Poor  
Brains: Good (Positive:  “Business Sense”,  “Perceptive Mind”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Strong Willed”; Negative:  “Weakness for the Ladies”) 

                                                                                                        159. 

----------------------- Page 160-----------------------

         Items: Business ledger, pencil 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •  Increase Spirit to Good 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Run Like a Coward” 
              •  Add the following special ability: Dumb Luck  

          Sly Con Artist 
          “Trust me.” 

          This character has an aptitude for bamboozling people. More importantly, he gets quite a  
         kick out of doing it. He is capable of hoodwinking almost anyone by whipping up elaborate  
         bullshit stories and making it all seem conceivable. Furthermore, he’s one of a rare breed that  
          can keep all these bullshit stories straight, even when he gets caught up in his own web of lies.  
         He never loses his composure in these instances. In fact, he enjoys digging his way out of his  
         untruths and prides himself on his ability to improvise and adlib. 

         Brawn: Poor (Negative:  “Untrained at Fighting”) 
         Finesse: Normal  
         Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Perception”,  “Planning Elaborate Ruses”) 
          Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Flimﬂ amming”) 

         Items: Cell phone, fake IDs, fake photos, wallet 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •  Increase Brains to Good 
              •  Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Cool Under Pressure” 
              •  Add the following special ability: Resourceful  

          Spaced-Out Raver 
          “This party’s going to be killer.” 

         Ecstacy, loud techno-industrial music, massive parties and eclectic, fetishistic styles of dress  
          -- these are the things that defi ne this character. She spends her days thinking about raves and  
         the nights attending them. Her sense of responsibility is practically nil, as she prefers to “live  
          for the moment” by loading herself up on hallucinogenics and dancing all night long without a  
          single thought about the repercussions. She’s not on speaking terms with reality.  

         Brawn: Normal  
         Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Techno Dancing”,  “Run Away”) 
         Brains: Normal (Negative:  “Screwed Up on Hallucinogenics”) 
          Spirit: Poor (Positive:  “Too Fried to Be Scared Easily”) 

         Items: Ecstasy, hair gel, fetish heels, dark make-up 

160. 

----------------------- Page 161-----------------------

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Likeable in a Weird Way” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Stupid Action  

Spiritual Tracker 
“The spirit of the eagle tells me he went this way.” 

Deeply in tune with nature, this character seems somehow otherworldly in many respects.  
He’s introspective and has wisdom far beyond his years. He was raised in the old ways,  
relying on instinct and skill rather than the high technology that many others cling to so  
desperately. Due to all this, others often consider him an outsider or just plain “weird”.  
Others, though, are smart enough to understand him and trust his gut feelings.    

Brawn: Normal  
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Wilderness Movement”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Tracking”; Negative:  “Technology Impaired”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Spirit Guidance”) 

Items: Hunting knife, buckskin vest, beaded animal-tooth necklace 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •  Increase Finesse to Good 
    •  Add the following positive quality to Brawn:  “Knife Handling” 
    •  Increase Brains to Good 

Spunky Skateboarder 
“That was totally sick, dude!!” 

Attitude. That’s the word that epitomizes this character’s personality in every way. She’s truly an  
individual who does what she pleases and it doesn’t matter to her whether or not others approve.  
It’s not that she’s a rebel per se… she just can’t be bothered to care one way or the other. She  
enjoys the freedom of hopping on her skateboard and going wherever she pleases, all the while  
nailing plenty of hot tricks along the way. She is a bit on the superstitious side though, as she  
refuses to go anywhere without her lucky charm (a wheel from her very fi rst skateboard).  

Brawn: Good (Positive:  “Good Limb Strength”) 
Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Skateboarding”) 
Brains: Poor (Positive:  “Quick Thinker”; Negative:  “Incautious”) 
Spirit: Poor 

Items: Skateboard, backpack, Thrasher magazine, lucky charm 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Spirit to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Upbeat” 
    •   Add the following Special Ability: Stupid Action 

                                                                                                    161. 

----------------------- Page 162-----------------------

          Straight-Shooting Solider 
          “I can shoot the wings off a ﬂ y from 500 yards. How about you?” 

          This character fi rmly believes in being all he can be. He serves his country and would gladly  
          give his life for it. Fortunately for him, it hasn’t yet come to that, but he’ll face his end like  
          a true soldier if and when death comes knocking on his door. Bravery is one of his greatest  
          assets, enabling him to keep his wits about him when situations become hairy. Loyalty is  
          another of his strong suits and he will never leave a comrade behind, even in the face of  
          certain death.  

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Rugged”) 
          Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Good Shot”) 
          Brains: Normal  
          Spirit: Poor (Positive:  “Cool Under  
          Fire” ; Negative:  “Dependant Upon  
          Military”)  

          Items: Riﬂ e, ammo, watch, dogtags,  
          duffel bag 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a  
          primary character, make the following  
          adjustments. 
              •   Increase Spirit to Normal 
              •   Add the following positive  
                  quality to Brains:  “Excellent  
                  Eye-Sight” 
              •   Add the following positive  
                  quality to Brains:   “Wilderness  
                  Survival” 

          Street-Smart Hoodlum 
          “You got a pro’lem, Pops??” 

          “Two-bit thug.” That’s what this character has been called all his life. And rightfully so. Let’s  
          face it: when someone goes out ﬂ agrantly breaking the law, bullying others, stealing and just  
          causing trouble in general, they’re going to acquire that label. It goes with the territory. This  
          character actually relishes the loathing that others feel for him. He enjoys being “the bad one”,  
          which doesn’t earn him many friends (except for others of his ilk). 

          Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Brawler”) 
          Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Quick Feet”) 
          Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Great Sense of Direction”, “Urban Survival”) 
          Spirit: Poor (Negative:  “Disliked”) 

162. 

----------------------- Page 163-----------------------

Items: Switchblade knife, spray paint, ball cap (usually worn backward), gaudy jewelry (think  
Mr. T) 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Brawn to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Hiding” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Resourceful 

Studious Bookworm 
“I’m not a geek, I’m just intellectually superior to you!” 

It takes a head full of knowledge to get ahead in the world these days and this character plans  
on getting a running start by reading and studying like crazy. When his nose isn’t wedged in  
a book, it’s online looking up information. They say that all work and no play makes Jack a  
dull boy. Well, if there is any truth to this adage, then this character is as dull as dull can be.  
In fact, he’s so dull that his peers typically tease him (sometimes playfully, sometimes not) by  
calling him a wallﬂ ower, dork, nerd or lame-o. This doesn’t bother him though. After all, he’ll  
end up being rich from his intellectual pursuits, while they will be asking if you want fries  
with that.   

Brawn: Poor (Negative:  “Underdeveloped Strength”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Nervous Stealth”) 
Brains: Good (Positive:  “Tactical Mind”) 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Bluff”) 

Items: Books, more books, book bag, calculator, laptop computer 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Finesse to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Hiding” 
    •   Add the following alteration: Starts game with 2 genre points  

Sultry Model 
“Like what you see, honey??” 

Doing photo shoots for fashion magazines has a way of inﬂ ating one’s ego. Even the most  
humble soul in the world can become a narcissistic the-world-revolves-around-me type. This  
character is no different. She was once a common girl who thought more of others than of  
herself, but all that has changed since she started modeling professionally. Now, she’s vain  
and egocentric, though she’ll argue with you that she’s the same person that she always was.  
She’s just incapable of seeing how far she’s drifted away from her former self. 

Brawn: Poor  
Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Athletic, “Flexible”) 
Brains: Poor 

                                                                                                        163. 

----------------------- Page 164-----------------------

          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Attractive”; Negative:  “Self Absorbed”) 

          Items: Expensive clothing, jewelry, makeup, publicity photos 

          Notes: Start the game with 2 genre points. 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Spirit to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Idol” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

          Sweet Waitress 
          “Would you like fries with that? Tee-hee.” 

          Career prospects have never been that  
          great for this character due to her – how  
          should we put it? – lack of cohesive  
          thought. She’s not outright unintelligent…  
          she simply has a scatterbrain. That is,  
          she’s so ﬂ ighty and forgetful that she  
          never manages to get good at anything.  
          In fact, that’s half her charm. It’s all but  
          impossible to dislike such a warm and  
          personable person, even if she is a dingbat.  
          Or perhaps because of it. 

          Brawn: Poor (Positive:  “Strong Legs”) 
          Finesse: Poor (Positive:  “Nimble”) 
          Brains: Normal (Negative:  “Ditzy”) 
          Spirit: Good (Positive:  “Whimsical  
          Charm”) 

          Items: Apron, notepad, pencil, waitress  
          hat, uncomfortable shoes 

          Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
              •   Increase Brains to Good 
              •   Add the following positive quality to Finesse:  “Hiding” 
              •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen  

164. 

----------------------- Page 165-----------------------

Teen Camper 
“I’ll get the wood… be right back.” 

This character’s favorite activity is, of course, camping. Talk about your classic surprise, huh?  
But let’s be honest here: he’s not actually in it for the sake of camping. He couldn’t care less  
about fi shing, playing games, roasting hotdogs or becoming one with Mother Nature. Those  
things are okay and all, but what he’s really interested in is chasing tail, partying, acting  
stupid and eventually getting slaughtered by some crazed masked man. Well, he may not be  
interested in the last one, but it’s likely going to happen anyway. 

Brawn: Normal (Positive:  “Climbing”) 
Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Fast Runner”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Perceptive”) 
Spirit: Normal (Negative:  “Overly Curious”) 

Items: Tent, sleeping bag, backpack, Swiss army knife, canteen 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments: 
    •   Increase Finesse to Good 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Wilderness Survival”  
    •   Add the following alteration: Start the game with 2 genre points  

Tough Biker 
“So, ya think yer tough, do ya?” 

He’s big, he’s bald and he has a nasty temper. This guy isn’t afraid to get in a fi ght. Hell, he  
probably starts most of them. When around his friends, he’s manageable enough, but you add  
other people to the mix, his belligerent and mean-natured side comes to the forefront. He’s  
strong and smart enough, but typically doesn’t inspire a good fi rst impression in those he  
meets. 

Brawn: Good (Positive:  “Brawler”,  “Hard to Hurt”) 
Finesse: Poor (Positive:  “Ride Cycles”) 
Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Common Sense”) 
Spirit: Poor (Negative:  “Mean”) 

Items: Chain, cigarettes, lighter, ﬂ ask, Harley Davidson motorcycle (with a ﬂ ame motif,  
naturally) 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments. 
    •   Increase Finesse to Normal  
    •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Doesn’t Scare Easy”  
    •   Add the following special ability: Back for More 

                                                                                                   165. 

----------------------- Page 166-----------------------

         Vivacious Sexpot 
          “Let’s go someplace where we can be alone.” 

         Busty? Check. Legs that never seem to end? Yup. Sultry bedroom eyes? You betcha. Slutty  
         behavior? Most defi nitely. These four things sum up this lively young lady perfectly. Her  
          strengths lie in her beautiful physical appearance and “sex kitten” attitude, a fact that she’s  
         absolutely okay with. She knows her limitations and just wants to have a good time doing  
         what she does best. After all, she never had any aspirations to be a rocket scientist or heart  
          surgeon anyway.   

         Brawn: Normal  
         Finesse: Normal (Positive:  “Flexible”) 
         Brains: Normal (Positive:  “Resourceful”) 
          Spirit: Poor (Positive:  “Attractive”; Negative:  “Nymphomaniac”) 

         Items: Mini-purse, condoms, hairspray, stiletto-heeled shoes. 

         Notes: Starts with 2 genre points. 

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments. 
             •   Increase Finesse to Good  
             •   Add the following positive quality to Spirit:  “Seduction” 
             •   Add the following special ability: Overcome  

         Well-Meaning Teacher 
          “This is for your own good!” 

         Remember your elementary school teacher, how she was always so nice and had your  
         best interest at heart? Well, now you get to see her die. But on a more serious note, she is  
         a kind person who goes to great lengths to help others. Normally, she is very likeable and  
         charismatic, always trying to avoid confrontation as much as possible. She isn’t the strongest  
         person to step foot on this earth, but what she lacks in strength, she makes up for with  
         knowledge. Hello ! She’s a teacher! She has to be at least somewhat intelligent.... we hope. 

         Brawn: Poor (Negative:  “Frail”) 
         Finesse: Poor (Positive:  “Limber”) 
         Brains: Good (Positive:  “Knowledge of History”) 
          Spirit: Normal (Positive:  “Sweetheart”) 

         Items: Book bag, planner, red ink pen, history book, apple, bobby pins  

         Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments. 
             •   Increase Spirit to Good 
             •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Perceptive”  
             •   Add the following special ability: Scream Queen 

166. 

----------------------- Page 167-----------------------

Wild Rocker Chick 
“We dee dee dwooo... YEAH!!” 

This chick wants to rock and roll  
all night and party every damn day.  
She’s as “rocker” as “rocker” can be.  
She can tell you anything you need to  
know about rock and roll music. She  
sometimes lets her enthusiasm get  
out of hand, causing her to get hyper  
and excited, but she’s still tolerable to  
be around. Just don’t dis her music,  
lest ye wind up with a guitar were it  
doesn’t belong. 

Brawn: Poor (Positive:  “Scrapper”) 
Finesse: Good (Positive:  “Excellent  
Stamina”,  “Athletic”) 
Brains: Poor 
Spirit: Normal (Positive:  
 “Magnetic Personality”; Negative:  
 “Hyperactive”) 

Items: Electric guitar, hair dye,  
pocket chains, bandanna 

Primary Character: If chosen as a primary character, make the following adjustments. 
    •   Increase Brains to Normal 
    •   Add the following positive quality to Brains:  “Common Sense” 
    •   Add the following special ability: Adrenaline Boost 

                                                                                                     167. 

----------------------- Page 168-----------------------

                                         INDEX 

     Adrenaline Boost    38                             Mysterious Disappearance    62 
                                                        Mysterious Disappearance    62 
     Alterations    37-39                               Negative Qualities    22-23, 37 
                                                        Negative Qualities    22-23, 37 
     Back For More    38                                Normal Person    62 
                                                        Normal Person    62 
     Brains    22                                       Opposed Checks    24-25 
                                                        Opposed Checks    24-25 
     Brawn    22                                        Overcome    38 
     Character Roles    48-49                           Players    6, 42-49 
     Character Templates    41, 114-167                 Positive Qualities    22-23, 37 
     Components    32, 59-64                            Possessing Spirit    62 
     Crucial Checks    28                               Prone to Falling    38 
     D10    5, 8                                        Psychic Power    39 
     D3    7                                            Quick Flicks    86 
     D6    5, 8                                         Resourceful    39 
     D8    5, 8                                         Role-Playing Games    6-7 
     Damage Threshold    33, 58, 59                     Scream Queen    39 
     Damage Tokens    33                                Secondary Characters    20-21, 47-48 
     Dark Secret    59                                  Separated Matches    23 
     Director    6, 7, 50-85                            Signature Weapon    63 
     Dumb Luck    38                                    Situational Boost    63 
     Event-Based Flicks    54, 56-57                    Small Stature    63 
     Exerted    33                                      Snack Runs    76 
     Extradimensional    60                             Special Abilities    38-39 
     Familiar Face    60                                Speedy Recovery    39 
     Faster Kill Scenes    28                           Spirit    22 
     Fearful Visage    60                               Stalking the Prey    63 
     Feeds on Fear    60                                Stat Checks    22-26 
     Fight or Flight    26-27                           Stat Ratings    22, 36 
     Finesse    22                                      Stats    22, 36 
     Flicks    6, 52-58                                 Steel Yourself    39 
     Freak-Out Checks    25-26                          Stereotypes    35 
     Genre Points    31-32, 45-47, 76, 77               Stupid Action    39 
     Group Archetype    48-49                           Superhuman Strength    64 
     Hard to Kill    61                                 Survival Points    26-29 
     Initiative Checks    26                            Taking Away Genre Points    77 
     Invigorated    33                                  Tertiary Characters    20-21, 58, 77-78 
     Kill Scenes    26-31, 77                           Tidbits    41 
     Killer    20-21, 32-33, 58-69, 78-79               Tidy    64 
     Let’s End This    38                               Toppers    24 
     Linked Item    61                                  Trap-Setter    64 
     Linked Location    61                              Vault, The    90-113 
     Location-Based Flicks    52-54, 56                 Versatile    39 
     Low-Intelligence    61                             Was Always Such a Nice Person    64 
     Miscellaneous Advantage    61                      Wholesome    39 
     Miscellaneous Disadvantage    62 

168. 

----------------------- Page 169-----------------------

                     CHARACTER SHEETCHARACTER SHEETCHARACTER SHEET                              CHARACTER SHEETCHARACTER SHEETCHARACTER SHEET 

 Name: Name: ________________________________________________________________________________________ Name: Name: ________________________________________________________________________________________ 
 Player: Player:  ____________________________________________________________________________ Player: Player:  ____________________________________________________________________________ 
                                                                            Stereotype: ______________________________________ 
 Stereotype: ______________________________________                         Stereotype:  
 Stereotype:  
       Primary       Secondary        Tertiary                                    Primary       Secondary        Tertiary 

Brawn                     Finesse                    8                     Brawn                     Finesse                    8 

Qualities:       +/-      Qualities:       +/-                             Qualities:       +/-      Qualities:       +/- 
                                                                           _____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
_____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
                                                                           _____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
_____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
                                                                           _____________ ___         _____________ ___          7 
_____________ ___         _____________ ___          7 
                                                                           _____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
_____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
                                                                           _____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
_____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
                                                                           _____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
_____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
                                                                           _____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
_____________ ___         _____________ ___ 
                                                     6                                                                          6 
                                                           S                                                                          S 
                                                           u                                                                          u 
                                                           r                                                                          r 
                                                           v                                                                    5 v 
                                                                                                                                      i 
                                                     5 
                                                           i                Brains                   Spirit 
                                                                                                                                      v 
 Brains                   Spirit 
                                                           v 
                                                           a                                                                          a 
                                                                                                                                      l 
                                                                            Qualities:       +/-     Qualities:       +/- 
                                                           l 
 Qualities:      +/-      Qualities:       +/- 
                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                4 
                                                                            _____________ ___        _____________ ___ 
                                                     4 
 _____________ ___        _____________ ___                P                _____________ ___        _____________ ___                P 
 _____________ ___        _____________ ___                o                _____________ ___        _____________ ___                o 
 _____________ ___        _____________ ___                i                                                                          i 
 _____________ ___        _____________ ___                n                _____________ ___        _____________ ___                n 
                                                                            _____________ ___        _____________ ___                t 
                                                                                                                                3 
 _____________ ___        _____________ ___                t 
                                                     3 
 _____________ ___        _____________ ___                                 _____________ ___        _____________ ___                  
 _____________ ___        _____________ ___                T                _____________ ___        _____________ ___                T 
                                                           r                                                                          r 
                                                     2 a                                                                        2 a 
                                                           c                                                                          c 
                                                           k                                                                          k 

  Special Ability (Primary Characters Only):        1                        Special Ability (Primary Characters Only):        1 
                                                    0                                                                           0 

 Tidbits:                                                                   Tidbits: 

                                                    Dead                                                                       Dead 

 Items:                                                                     Items: 

       Permission granted by Spectrum Games to reproduce for personal use only.   Permission granted by Spectrum Games to reproduce for personal use only. 

----------------------- Page 170-----------------------

                             Have Genre... 
                                             Will Emulate. 

Over the years, Spectrum Games has earned a reputation for painstakingly emulating various genres. We break  
the genre down, analyze it and figure out the best way to make all the elements a crucial and exciting part of  
the gaming experience. When you play one of our games, you’ll be experiencing the chosen genre in ways you  
                                       never thought possible. 

                                 www.spectrum-games.com 

                                2807 Grand Ave., Parsons, Kansas 67357 

----------------------- Page 171-----------------------

